His reign was the most unparalleled, for his justice, energy, and progressive character, of any in the East.
The breakwater, which has been the making of the city, cost £600,000; for it is an entirely safe harbor, with every facility for landing and embarking passengers and goods.
Those of you who have looked over Bradshaw's 'Guide to India' will find descriptions of the several examinations for various employments." "I wish the English system could be transferred to the United States," said Uncle Moses with great unction.
"Air ye's from the County Carhk?" "Oi'm from the county and parish of Kilkenny; or mi mudther was, thou' she's dead now, long loife to her!
But at this moment the driver had something to say, and delivered himself with energy.
But this one, when informed that the Guardian-Mother was a yacht conveying a young millionaire all-over-the-world, was very respectful and deferential.
She narrates her early history, when she was a peasant girl on the banks of the Jumna, with her companions, and drew upon herself the attention of the god.
The chief temple has a hundred and twenty others in an enclosure, with a tower one hundred and ninety-two feet high.
The court in Cuba decreed that his yacht belonged to his wife; and her new owner, at the suggestion of the commander of the Guardian-Mother, made Penn Sharp, to whom she was largely indebted for the fortune to which she had succeeded, the captain of her.
"I believe it, because I have inquired into its history.
History says that one hundred and forty thousand cartloads of pink sandstone and marble were brought from the quarries of Rajputana; and every province of the empire furnished precious stones to adorn it.
They were introduced to the members of the party, and then they were driven to the fort." "At the time of the mutiny Cawnpore contained about one thousand English people, one half of whom were women and children," said Captain Chesly, the principal of the officers.
In portions of the country the British were isolated, as in the camp before Delhi, and in the works at Agra, Allahabad, and Lucknow.
"They are in the village of Walkeshwar.
To Miss Blanche he was very polite; but he did not give a moment more to her than to the other ladies, much to the satisfaction of her parents.
We are not here to learn the Indian languages, and we can take our choice; and we can talk 'good old United States,' in speaking of things," suggested Louis.
Convinced that the Moor had really reformed his life, they were reconciled, and General Noury was received with favor by all the party.
I learned once from a folder that a certain steamer would leave Detroit at half-past twenty-two; meaning half-past ten.
They had comely features of a brownish hue, and were dressed in the loose robes of the country, reaching to the ground; one of the garments extended to cover the head, though not the face.
The minarets of the Vazir Khan pleased all the party, for they were certainly very beautiful.
The maharajah entertained the Prince of Wales in it when he made his progress through the country.
Sir Modava explained that Eastern etiquette required that the visitors going into the presence of the Maharajah should remove their shoes, but that Europeans and Americans were exempt from this requirement.
It is one of the most frequented waterways in the world, though the building of railways and canals has somewhat diminished the amount of freight borne on its tide.
Paul Belgrave was a millionaire without any millions; for he was never able to find the large property of his deceased parent.
It was stopped and started again several times, till the spectators were satisfied.
Leaving the snakes to the tender mercies of the gentleman from Travancore, I will make my bow," which he did, and stepped down.
"The mountains are near the southern part, and the highest one is Mount Pedrotallagalla,--don't forget the name, my young friends,--eight thousand two hundred and sixty feet high.
A bridge of boats sixteen hundred yards in length was an affair not seen in their own country.
Thanking the gentleman for his kindness, they parted.
It is a curious fact that, as the native troops are recruited by voluntary enlistment, all castes and races, including Brahmins, are drawn in by the good pay and the pension promised.
Belgrave, who was the pianist of the occasion, gave a solo, while Sir Modava sang the "Missionary Hymn," which is still a favorite in England and America, translated into the Hindu language.
The ceremonies occupied many days; and kings, maharajahs, rajahs, and other princes bowed to the throne of the sovereign.
"I desire to express my gratitude anew to you, and to the gentlemen who have made us capable of coming into your presence in proper condition," said his lordship, as the commander took his offered hand, which was wrung with the utmost cordiality.
Early tradition buried him in Edessa, in Mesopotamia, but a later account sent him to India; but this is something for learned doctors to discuss.
[Illustration: "He was dressed in the most magnificent robes of India." --Page 234.] _All-Over-the-World Library--Third Series_ ACROSS INDIA OR LIVE BOYS IN THE FAR EAST BY OLIVER OPTIC AUTHOR OF "A MISSING MILLION" "A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN" "A YOUNG KNIGHT-ERRANT" "STRANGE SIGHTS ABROAD" "AMERICAN BOYS AFLOAT" "THE YOUNG NAVIGATORS" "UP AND DOWN THE NILE" "ASIATIC BREEZES" AND UPWARDS OF ONE HUNDRED OTHER VOLUMES BOSTON LEE AND SHEPARD PUBLISHERS 10 MILK STREET 1895 * * * * * TO MY LONG-TRIED FRIEND OF MORE THAN FORTY YEARS, WITH WHOM IN ALL THAT TIME, I HAVE NOT HAD A BICKER OR A SHADOW OF UNPLEASANTNESS THOUGH HE HAS BEEN MY SENIOR PUBLISHER FOR MORE THAN AN ENTIRE GENERATION, AND TO WHOM I HAVE NOT DEDICATED A BOOK FOR THIRTY YEARS WILLIAM LEE This Volume IS RESPECTFULLY AND CORDIALLY INSCRIBED BY HIS FAITHFUL AND EVER GRATEFUL FRIEND WILLIAM T.
"Steady!" added the captain when the steamer was headed a point south of west.
He was the husband of the Queen of Oude, whose burial-place you saw in Père-la-Chaise." The next visit was to the palace of Claude Martine, a conglomeration of all the styles of architecture ever known, and some that were never heard of.
The ladies were assisted on board of the steamer.
Next came a whole squadron of Mahratta cavalry, which looked as though they were serviceable soldiers of that arm, for they were good riders, well mounted, and were all lusty fellows.
"I will try to remember it," replied the commander.
All the ladies had declared over and over again that the latter was a very fascinating man; but he was a person of discernment, and he could not very well help seeing that the young millionaire had a special interest in the beautiful young lady.
But they are here just about what they are in London, and their habits are much the same," replied the viscount.
They defended themselves with the utmost bravery and skill against the vast horde of natives brought against them.
"The boats were cast loose to the current, and the hungry people rushed to the eatables.
"No, you won't, Flix; they will be more likely to bag you," rallied Scott.
The guests at the banquet went off to the ships, from the smoke-stacks of which the black smoke was pouring out, as if to emphasize the reality of the departure.
That is just what is the matter now." "But you have been seeing new things all the time, and learning something," added Louis.
He fired; and, as the reptile was not ten feet from him, so skilful a marksman could hardly help hitting him.
Watching for the favorable moment, he gave the order to the cockswain and bowman to lower away, with the aid of the oarsmen near them.
He invited the party to come to the church, and the boys hastened back to the hotel to tell their friends about it.
AT THE CAPITAL OF THE PUNJAB 266 CHAPTER XXIX.
"I have not time now to describe it in full.
If we do not make ourselves worthy of the generous welcome you have extended to us, we shall not ask any consideration on account of the titles that have fallen upon us through the nature of our constitutional government.
CHAPTER II THE WRECK IN THE ARABIAN SEA It was a sharp squall that suddenly struck the Guardian-Mother, heeling her over so that everything movable on her decks or below went over to the lee side, and sending no small quantity of salt water over her pilot-house.
But he was then a poor boy; and his mother warned him not to get entangled in any affair of the heart, which had never entered the head of the subject of the warning.
"I have heard of a young man not older than Mobarak who lost his life rather than come in contact with the saliva of a foreigner; but I doubt if many would carry their fanaticism to that extent," he added.
It was formerly the principal coaling and shipping station in this part of India; but all this has gone to Colombo.
The next morning the carriages conveyed them to the Apollo Bunder, and at seven o'clock the Guardian-Mother was under way.
He caught sight of the bull as soon as he appeared, for he had doubtless killed many a bullock in the jungle.
"This isn't bad for a haythen counthry," said Felix, as he stretched himself on the lower couch.
"I should not ask him any questions in that direction," interposed Sir Modava, afraid she would meddle with an interdicted subject; and the young gentleman's father seemed to have a similar fear, for he gently led him away.
Among them Louis was the first to discover the Guardian-Mother.
The chief juggler declared that they could not go on, and Uncle Moses suggested that they had to overwhelm the senses of the audience to enable the jugglers to deceive them.
He hated the Christians, and did his work only because he was paid for it; but he had to listen to the prayers and exhortations, and finally he yielded in spite of himself, and became a very useful Christian minister.
Scott," said the commander, as the young officer touched his cap to him.
They were a very sociable party, and preferred the conference carriage to being confined to the smaller compartments.
Woolridge was especially interested, for some very fine animals were to be seen, including some choice Arabians.
Their apartments were not elegant, but they were comfortable; and no one found any fault at the absence of the splendors with which they had been surrounded in the palace of the Guicowar, or even those of Bombay.
The Guicowar entered the spectators' apartment, which was already well filled with nobles and the foreigners.
"Up to the present time we have been your guests; now I will become the host, and you and your party will be my guests.
"If I could only take the sun, I could work up the longitude myself," the little beauty declared.
The educational scheme of the commander was then fully considered, and it was decided to make a voyage around the world in the Guardian-Mother.
Three times the brave defenders beat back the assaults of the assailants.
Permit me to present to you Prince Modava, who has been knighted for his distinguished services to the British Crown, and who prefers to be known by his English title." "That's your colored man!" whispered Felix to Mrs.
But the most sacred relic here is the tooth of Gautama, kept in an elegant shrine and carefully guarded at Candy.
"I am happy to see you in such excellent condition so soon after the disaster.
Nearly a hundred years ago it was the most populous city of India.
It did not look much like it when the ship began to roll quite violently.
The viscount directed the driver of his carriage to pass through Cruikshank Road to the Parsees' Bazaar, which is just north of the Fort.
At the suggestion of Captain Ringgold, Lord Tremlyn consented to give the travellers some information in regard to the city of Bombay.
"The weather is generally fine, and the sky clear, with neither squall nor rain, except between Ras Seger and the island of Masira,'" Scott began to read, when the commander interrupted him, and fixed his gaze on the chart, to find the localities mentioned.
The affair was declared to be a great success for a dinner-party at sea, and the commander of the Guardian-Mother invited all their hosts to assist him in a similar one on board his ship, the signal for which was to be the American Union Jack when the weather was suitable.
Part of the forenoon of the next day was given to a ride along the Ganges, which was crowded with boats of all kinds, from the boat with a cabin covered with a thatched roof to steamboats of considerable size.
This body is really the cabinet of the viceroy.
In the United Kingdom the average in England is 541; in Scotland, 135; in Wales, 206; and in Ireland, 144.
"The fisheries are under government regulation.
He did his best to foment discontent, and succeeded too well; for the mutiny was his work.
"I suppose you know all about cinnamon, Mrs.
The social intercourse between them and their European neighbors is very limited.
Scoble in Cuba, where she had inherited the large fortune of an uncle whom she had nursed in his last sickness.
"Isa Mohammed, a later emperor, built one at the western end of the terrace.
"But is the Guicowar really a king, when all this country belongs to the English?
They were seated on the floor in native fashion.
The pillars were not the graceful forms of modern times, and many of them had lost all shape.
The commander appeared to be so much disturbed, that the young officer did not venture to say anything for the next half-hour, though he continued to walk at his side.
"Nana ordered that not a man should be saved, and all were murdered in cold blood.
They are not permitted to marry outside of their own sect.
While he was watching the east, the lookout man in the foretop hailed the deck.
Each of these societies, or whatever you may call them, is independent, and has its own regulations.
"What do you call that house?" asked Mrs.
Hawkes took possession of Dr.
Satyavama is brought back to life.
"If you saw a cobry, you would run till you got back to Ireland." "Is'ht me!
CHAPTER X THE FLORA AND THE SNAKES OF INDIA The middle of the day was devoted to recreation.
None but the wealthiest people of the city could afford to ride after these animals.
He was made a baronet, created a Knight Commander of the Bath, and a pension of £1,000 was awarded to him.
He captured Somnath, and destroyed all the idols.
Next to China, India is the most populous country on the globe; and without Nepaul, it numbered, in 1891, 287,223,917, or more than one-seventh of the people on the face of the earth; and the increase in the last decade was almost 28,000,000,--enough to populate about a dozen of your larger States.
He invited Louis and his mother to several excursions in his yacht; and the two families became very intimate, though they were not of the same social rank, for Mr.
"This locality is generally called the Fort; for though its walls have been removed, it retains the old name.
"You have not been told about it; but I will give you its history when we have time, for here are the Eden Gardens," replied Sir Modava.
"I venture to say you have used something of the kind, madame.
The stream sweeps around the place like a crescent, presenting one of the finest views you ever saw, with the ornamented fronts of dwellings, public offices, and a forest of towers, pinnacles, and turrets.
"I give it up, and it's all right.
For some distance they had noticed funeral processions on their way to this place.
The seamen assisted the dripping passengers to the deck; and the masculine tenants of the state-cabin crept along the life-lines to take part in the scene, or at least to witness it.
There is scarcely a single safe harbor for large vessels.
The Guicowar went with them to the station, and saw them seated in the great carriage that had been prepared for them.
"I do not object, if Mr.
The town has an abundant territory; but large as it is, portions of it are very densely peopled, averaging twenty-one inmates to a house," continued the viscount.
Asa is the gum of a tree that grows here.
From the Bazaar the carriages proceeded through the Fort, and the public buildings were pointed out to them.
"Then Captain Sharp really saved his life?" added Lord Tremlyn.
Felix McGavonty, who was the captain's clerk, had made out several lists of the passengers, at the request of Lord Tremlyn; and one of them had been sent to the hotel, so that their rooms were already assigned to them.
There are one hundred and thirty-six Buddhist hells, regularly graded in the degree of suffering experienced and the length of time it endures, the shortest term being ten million years.
The Guardian-Mother was anchored in the deep water, and Lord Tremlyn invited the party to proceed to the apartments at the Royal Hotel which he had bespoken for them.
"They are not agreeable companions; but we don't make half so much of them as you do, sir.
Blossom, who had listened with half-open mouth after the doctor called the tree sacred.
It was found impracticable to heed the names that had been placed on the plates, for it would have taken too much time.
Belgrave, as she continued her retreat towards the path.
The sisters of my church are very favorable to religious topics, such as were suggested on the Nile; and when we were near the land of Goshen and the Sinai peninsula Mrs.
"For the present we are your guests, and we place ourselves entirely under your direction." "I am extremely happy to take you all under my protection; but I cannot submit to the proviso which you have added to my offer, though I will be satisfied to have you 'for the present' as my guests, and we will leave the future to take care of itself.
But as soon as the ladies and gentlemen had satisfied themselves with looking out the windows the commander presented Sir Modava as the "talkist" for the trip of six hours, or as much of the time as he chose to occupy.
"I have done something towards preparing a route through India; and I should be glad to have the advice of such counsellors as we were so fortunate as to pick up in the midst of the rage of the stormy ocean." "The time of our party is at your disposal for as long a period as we can be of service to you.
A granite platform is the base of the funeral pyre, and the bodies wait their turn to be reduced to ashes; and the cremation is far more repulsive than that in our own country.
"He is my friend, then," said the Maharajah, as he gave him no equivocal shake of the hand.
Farrongate, or rather John Scoble, which was his real name, was a deserter from the British army.
The harbor was large enough to accommodate all the navies of the world, and there was no difficulty on this account.
It is a light, ethereal sort of structure, and looks like lacework.
Belgrave," with a smile so sweet and expressive that it ravished the hearts of the ladies.
"They can't eat silver," suggested Morris.
Formerly, on the approach of a cyclone, vessels lying in the roadstead, as the only harbor it had, which was no harbor, had to put to sea to avoid being driven on the shore.
"Do you think you can pull an oar in a heavy seaway, Mr.
"I can only select from the mass of material before me what I think will be most interesting and useful to you; for I have been warned that I must not talk all day," continued the viscount.
It had become known by this time that a dozen American ladies and gentlemen were circulating through the place, engaged in sight-seeing.
To bathe in its waters washes away sin; to die and be buried on its shores procures a free admission to the eternal paradise of heaven.
But I must stop for the want of time rather than because there is nothing more to be said; and I have done no more than touch the subject." "But it is not very different from Brahminism," suggested Professor Giroud.
If it were the beginning of their year, which is different from ours, you might witness a celebration of the day.
"One who has been a member of Congress is still an 'Honorable,' though his term of office expired twenty or forty years ago.
CHAPTER XXXIV ALL OVER THE CITY OF CALCUTTA "I shall be glad to be on board of the Guardian-Mother again," said Scott, after the four live boys had taken a place by themselves in the conference carriage.
But in transforming this magnificent palace of the emperors into barracks, much of the original beauty had been spoiled; the lapse of years had made great rents in the walls, and the visitor was compelled to exercise his imagination to some extent in filling up what it had been centuries before.
Priests and musicians surround the idol; and young girls, widowed before they are wives, dancing and waving their scarfs in solemn cadence, lead the way.
The skins of the tigers and leopards were sent to an expert, to be prepared for future preservation when the time should admit.
They became strong friends; and both the captain and Mrs.
The word means the Fountain of Dourga; and when they came to it they agreed that it was one of the most beautiful buildings in Benares, though it was painted all over with red, which made it look rather fantastic.
Companies were organized to develop the resources of the country in the textile plant; and the fever raged as high as it did when the South Sea Bubble was blown up, or as it has sometimes in New York and other cities of your country.
"There are a few poisonous snakes; and the two worst are the cobra and the ticpolonga, the latter a sort of viper; and the former is an old friend of yours, Mr.
"Certainly not," replied the Pacha.
"That's right; but the circumstances are a little different in my case.
Its principal object of adoration is a plain stone post, which is believed to form a part of the very body of the deity, Siva in this instance.
As the carriages stopped at the door, the band began a military march, whose inspiring strains seemed to give an additional lustre to the elaborate decorations.
The festive god is tortured with remorse, but has no excuse to offer.
"By the census of 1891, India has seventy-five towns with over 50,000 inhabitants, and twenty-eight with over 100,000; but unlike three cities of the States, it has not one with over a million, though Calcutta and Bombay are likely to reach that distinction in another decade.
"It is on the left-hand side." "You have put your foot in it, mother," rallied Louis.
"This is the Bombay Presidency, with a governor appointed by the crown, a Legislative Council, a mixed garrison of English and native soldiers, under a local commander-in-chief.
"I should like to take my band with me," said General Noury, when the officials had all departed.
Now, my dear Captain Ringgold," continued his lordship, taking what looked like a picture-frame from a table near him, "I ask the privilege of presenting to you this testimonial of the gratitude of the three cabin survivors of the wreck of the Travancore, which I will ask you to hang up in the cabin of the Guardian-Mother." The commander took the frame, in which was a printed testimonial, containing a full account of the rescue of the survivors of the wreck, with a concluding paragraph, expressive of the obligations of the principal persons rescued, to the captain and his ship's company for their noble and successful exertions in saving them and all the people on board.
Ain't I a lineal dayscindant of St.
In turn the snakes remaining in the baskets were released, and allowed to feast on the milk as others were removed.
The boat was as handsome as anything that ever floated, and the stern-sheets were luxurious enough for a fairy craft.
"That is a form of Buddhism.
The others did not like this plan; and, after some consideration, it was decided to go to a hotel; at least it was suggested as the remedy by the commander, who again insisted upon paying the bill.
George, which seemed to be a city of itself.
"Captain Ringgold," said the viscount, as he brought forward a rather stout man, with spectacles on his nose, and an odd-looking cap or turban on his head, "this is Pallonjee Pestonjee, the proprietor of the Victoria Hotel." "I am happy to know you, sir," replied the commander, as he took the hand of the gentleman, who was a Parsee, though he did not attempt to pronounce the name.
"There!" he screamed wildly, as he pointed over the stern, where the person indicated was swimming for the first cutter.
"How could I run away when I was surrounded by the snakes?" demanded Felix, when the worthy lady's discipline became somewhat monotonous to him.
13, which had been appropriated to Dr.
Brief notices of the lives of such men as Bishop Heber, Sir Colin Campbell, Henry Havelock, and others are introduced.
"She is running at full speed for a position on our port hand." "Very good," replied the commander.
The carriages continued on their way to the city; and when they entered a street, Lord Tremlyn called the attention of those with him to a couple of native women who had stopped to look at them, for the party excited no little curiosity wherever they went.
Before they had disposed of it the landaus were at the door.
The time for parting with Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava Rao, and Dr.
"The kings of Oude were ambitious to outshine the glories of Delhi, and, to a considerable extent, they succeeded; but the architecture is fantastic rather than grand and beautiful, and experts are inclined to laugh at it.
They argued the question for some time; but at last the commander yielded the point.
The journey was by a different route from that by which they had come, and through a more densely populated region.
"Were you the captain of the Travancore, sir?" asked the commander.
Women and children earn small wages.
It continued to come nearer, and at last appeared to proceed from the basket, which began to be distended, till it was restored to its full size.
This tree is extensively planted around the temples of the Hindus, and many religious devotees pass their lives under its shade for its sanctifying influence.
Though he had a wife, a mother, and a young daughter, they were never presented to the gentlemen of the party, though the ladies were permitted to make their acquaintance, and learned more from them about Hindu domestic life than they could have obtained from any others.
"To-morrow will be a great day in Baroda," said Sir Modava to the commander.
"Have you a chaplain?" "We have not, and I am obliged to act in that capacity for the want of a better," replied the captain.
Henderson should go with him; and with three physicians in the excursion they appeared to be provided for any emergency.
You have all seen a 'merry-go-round' machine in which children ride in a circle on wooden horses.
"I was able to give only a very brief and imperfect account of the rebellion, with so great a subject as India in general on my hands, on board of your ship, and very likely there will be occasion to repeat some portions of it as we point out the various spots connected with it," replied Lord Tremlyn.
Adjusting it to their lips, they began to play; and the music was not bad, and it appeared to be capable of charming the cobras, for they raised their heads out of the baskets.
The city was founded before 1512; for then it was burned by the Portuguese, who did it again eighteen years later.
The first cutter was approaching a man who was at the extremity of the western wing of the party.
For he's a jolly good fellow!
It has water enough for variety; and there is no difficulty at all in getting it, for the city is hardly above the river at high tide.
The Blanche had taken a position on the beam of the Guardian-Mother, her band playing for all they were worth.
Crossing the drawbridge, the visitors came to the Palace of Justice, built by Akbar.
"It has become evident in very recent years that Ceylon might become a great tea-growing region, and the planters are now largely engaged in its culture.
CHAPTER XI A PLEASANT DINNER-PARTY AT SEA The Blanche was on the starboard beam of the Guardian-Mother, or, in shore parlance, she was on the right-hand side of her as both ships sailed to the eastward.
"Elaborate toilets are hardly expected at sea, out of sight of land.
He advised the young man's mother, who was also his guardian, and the trustee to buy a good-sized steam-yacht.
"That time has not come, Captain Ringgold; and it never will come," replied his lordship very decidedly.
The Buddhists are mostly in Burma, and there are over 57,000,000 Mohammedans.
The _c_ and the _k_ are about interchangeable, and you can use either one of them.
One had an elephant's head, and all of them wore high gilt mitres.
Scott," said Louis Belgrave in a low tone, as the second cutter, ahead of the first on the return, approached the ship.
"You observe some Chinamen and Burmese; but most of the laborers are of the low class of natives, Bengalese, and they are very sorry specimens of the Hindus." "But what are the merchants and shopkeepers?" asked Captain Ringgold.
The weather was favorable, and the tourists used their time in getting rested.
She returned in a few minutes, ready to go out; and she was as radiant as a fairy in her light costume.
This word Hindu, I repeat, properly applies to only a portion of this country, but has come into use as a name for the entire region.
But I gave him as a subject the horses and other animals of Egypt.
Four pieces were evidently used, and they were fired with considerable rapidity, proving that the British tars who formed her ship's company had seen service in the navy.
If the exterior of the splendid mansion had challenged the admiration of the guests, the interior presented a scene of Oriental magnificence which might have astonished even the Count of Monte Cristo.
Since that time a famine fund has been established; and in years of plenty a million and a half sterling has been set aside for this object.
They all manifest their interest by asking questions.
We respect the religious exclusiveness of the sects, and do not ask them to exempt our people from the operation of their rules and customs.
The Blanche came about again, and her other quarter-boat was soon pulling after the first.
"The loss of life on account of famine, caused by the failure of the monsoon rains, has been terrific in some years.
She was duly prepared for the purpose by Captain Ringgold.
Most of the buildings here were very plain.
With eyes half-closed, and with a languishing expression on her dusky face, she made a variety of gestures, posturing frequently as she continued to turn.
"As a religious exhibition, from my point of view, it was a failure." "It does not convey much of an idea of even the mythology of the Hindus," added Professor Giroud.
After tiffin, when the party started for the steamer that was to convey them to the two ships, it seemed as though all the citizens of Colombo, with their ladies, had gathered to assist in the parting benedictions.
Woolridge, as the steamer approached the point.
One of them bears the hook, or pipe, presented to the Guicowar by the viceroy, another waves a banner, and the others flourish fans of peacock feathers.
They were inclined to believe they had seen everything that was worth seeing in the civilized world, and they had some decided views of their own in regard to the future.
With these the cutter wad quickly swung out, and the crew took their places in her, the bowman at the forward tackle, and the cockswain at the after.
CHAPTER XXII A MERE STATEMENT ABOUT BUDDHISM "I looked into a Hindu temple this morning while I was walking about," said Louis Belgrave, after the jugglers had been discussed a while.
On his way he could not help giving an inquiring look at the manner in which the substitute for Bargate performed his duty.
Here they came alongside each other, and all the company on board the Cherub were invited to a collation on board of the Guardian-Mother, at which Captain Ringgold presided, and many speeches were made by the residents of Calcutta, and by the passengers on board.
"Though he was Siva's son, the father was jealous of him, and struck off his head.
"But, so far as viewing the wonderful buildings of India, you will have a rest at this place; though you need not suppose it is a city of no importance, for it has 188,712 inhabitants, and has a large trade.
Game and other birds would make a hunter's paradise if it were not for the snakes and tigers, which are unpleasant to an American when his piece is loaded with only birdshot.
General Noury had been placed on his right as the one highest in rank of any present.
About all the gods and goddesses known to the Greeks and Romans have an existence in the Indian mythology more or less similar to them.
"It is the residence of the governor-general, generally called the viceroy; and he has his offices there.
If the man had far to run he would inevitably be lost; for the elephant, clumsy as he appears to be, develops great speed of foot when he is excited.
Hawkes is a leading member of his profession, and is sometimes a lecturer in various medical and surgical institutions in New York.
The Moor began to go over his story again, but it was interrupted by the entrance of General Noury.
"You remember that when Mrs.
The young man fancied that yachting would suit him; and he proposed to Squire Moses Scarburn, the trustee of all his property, to purchase a cheap vessel for his use.
The Hindu law weighed terribly upon her.
Our women make it of Irish moss, and use it to stiffen the hair, so as to make it lie in the right place.
The worthy commander of the Guardian-Mother was always called Captain Ringgold in Von Blonk Park and New York, though he had not been in command of a ship for ten years," argued Louis.
The distinguished guests on board of the Guardian-Mother were perfectly familiar with Bombay and its surroundings, as they were with all of the country, and their services were just now in demand.
"Oriental customs are much the same wherever you find them," replied Sir Modava.
He was robed like the others, and the portions of his skin in sight were fantastically painted in various designs.
Belgrave declared they had had a good time.
Tiffin was ready; and a line of carriages was at the door waiting for the tourists when they had disposed of the lunch, and they seated themselves for a drive.
THE MAGNIFICENT MAUSOLEUM OF AGRA 286 CHAPTER XXXI.
"At an elevation of 7,200 feet the temperature is an average of 58° Fahrenheit, as I shall give all readings of the thermometer.
You see him walking about in a crowd with as much dignity and gravity as though he were a big banker; and he is also seen perched upon the walls and buildings.
The water varies in depth from fifty-four to seventy-eight feet.
I have the honor to be the secretary of the Right Honorable Viscount Tremlyn, the son of the noble earl who is Secretary of State for India.
"He is your _Khidmutgar_, madam," replied the Hindu knight, with a smile on his handsome face.
"I wish to tell the story of a Frenchman, which I think will interest the party," said the professor.
They pricked him with the javelins, shook the red banners in his face, and fizzed the pyrotechnics before his eyes.
As soon as she was clear, the commander, who had remained in the pilot-house, rang the gong to go ahead.
It extends along the Ganges for three miles; and the shore is lined continuously with staircases, called _ghats_, which lead up to the temples, palaces, and the vast number of houses on the banks of the river.
It is the great mail port; and I have seen landed at Dover thirty tons of post-bags, sent from here by Suez and through Europe by the Orient Express.
A woman on the Hindu stage is a thing unknown," rallied the viscount.
As I heard one of the 'Big Four' say this morning, 'You pay your money and take your choice,' as to the signification of the word.
New Jersey has 193, Connecticut, 154; the big States of New York and Pennsylvania have respectively 126 and 117.
"That would not do it any better," replied Scott.
Officers came to Cuba to arrest him for his crimes at the races, and he was sent to the scene of his villany, where the court sentenced him to Sing Sing for a long term.
A salute was fired from the heaviest guns on both vessels, the screws began to turn, the final words were shouted, and the steamers stood to the southward.
"Refer him to my secretary." The under-official obtained particulars from the first officer in regard to the steamer for the custom-house, and Dr.
"A bungalow," replied Sir Modava.
From there we will go to Madras and Ceylon by the steamer," said the commander, who seemed to have arranged the whole trip.
"I saw some very ugly-looking idols; and I should like to ask if they really represent individuals, or are creatures of the imagination." "Both," replied Sir Modava with a smile; "there are, as you have been told before, a great many different sects, and a system of mythology.
The steamer next came to a long row of palaces on the high ground, whose fronts were profusely ornamented with staircases that exceeded in extent and beauty anything they had before seen.
"That is not strange, as it was an affair of one hundred and eighty-one years ago," replied Lord Tremlyn.
He leaped from the cage, and seemed to be astonished at the sight of so many people.
All the forenoon was spent in exchanging the parting greetings.
And now having reviewed the incidents of the past, fully related in the preceding volumes of the series, it is quite time to attend to the imperilled persons on the wreck.
They are well dressed, and therefore not Sudra.
The deaths from snakes is one in 13,070; and the chance of being bitten is very small." "I am afraid your figures lie, Sir Modava," said Captain Ringgold, with a pleasant laugh.
India has three well-defined seasons,--the cool, the hot, and the rainy.
The hotel furnishes no attendants, and each visitor brings his own.
It was the middle of March, and the hot weather was coming on, and the company must return to the Guardian-Mother on the following morning.
"Abbas-Meerza, we call him, without any 'mister,'" he added.
In the morning all were dead but twenty-three.
"Is he afeerd of schnakes?" "He needn't be, perched on the top of the pachyderm," answered Scott.
The ladies and most of the gentlemen were greatly interested in the plants and flowers, and the whole forenoon was agreeably passed in viewing them.
"A big schnake; a boa, or loike him." "Is it the bore that runs up the river to Calcutty?" "Not the same boa," laughed the captain.
They gave the preliminary strains, and the dancers formed the semicircle.
It was fun to them, and the mendicants enjoyed it quite as much.
The guests looked at the titles of the books, considerable additions to which had been made at Cairo, Alexandria, and elsewhere.
"I accept this as the property of the ship, and to me personally nothing could be more valued," replied the commander, extending his thanks at considerable length; but he said nothing more about payment, though he could not help thinking that their elegant and bountiful hospitality had cost the viscount and the Indian gentleman several thousand pounds.
Though Miss Blanche was with Louis most of the time when they were on deck, and walked and rode with him when they were on shore, she was just as kind and pleasant with all the members of the "Big Four;" and when Louis was engaged in a special study, as when he was preparing his "talk for the conference," Scott or Felix found a chance for a promenade with her.
Gaskette saw these manoeuvres successfully accomplished, and then started for the pilot-house, to report to the captain.
The people are called Singhalese, but more generally Cingalese, and are believed to be the descendants of immigrants from the region of the Ganges.
"Then a large number of your passengers must be scientific people." "Not at all, sir; the large majority of them are men and women of good education, and Professor Giroud is a learned Frenchman who has been a lecturer at various colleges and schools.
The custom-house officers came on board; and, as the ship was not one of any regular line, a high official came off with them.
The commander extended his hand to him, and it was cordially grasped.
"I used to read the most horrible stories in my Sabbath-school books about that idol." "Those stories, as I have been informed by elderly Englishmen, were published in the United Kingdom, and all of them are inventions or gross exaggerations," replied Sir Modava, with his pleasant smile.
But I will do you the justice to believe that you all want to know something more about the fauna of India.
Yet Rukmini triumphs over her.
All of them testified that they had been exceedingly interested in his address, especially that part relating to the mutiny.
"It extends nine miles along the Ganges, and an average of two back from it.
"It is sometimes spelled Hugli.
They had to wait an hour for the king, but they found enough to interest them in observing the coming of numerous other guests.
Early in 1857 the garrison of Meerut, near Delhi, revolted, and the British troops failed to suppress it.
I believe there is not an idol or sculpture in all India that represents Brahma.
The commander immediately beat another retreat; but the Fatimé, as the Moroccan steamer was called, followed her to Gibraltar.
"I propose to land and proceed to our hotel as soon as the ladies are ready," said Lord Tremlyn, when he had retired to the captain's cabin with the commander.
Belgrave, laughing; and she seemed to feel as though she was taking a part in a farce.
He was suffering fearfully; and Captain Ringgold shot him at once, though the Hindus were delighted by his torture.
He spoke English as fluently as any person present, and was very affable to all.
"The original forests which once covered hills and plains have been recklessly cut away; and long ago this source of wealth was driven back into the mountains, to the vast injury of the climate and the water supply for the nourishment of the arable lands of the Country.
There has never been anything like a poor-law, and ordinarily there is no need of such.
Hawkes; and the sibilation was repeated by Uncle Moses, for each of them weighed over two hundred and a quarter.
When one of the Jat chiefs seated himself upon it, the story goes, it cracked, and blood flowed from the fracture.
But the Travancore was an able seaboat, and we went along very well until we were run into by a steamer in the darkness and mist early this morning.
Bland, give my compliments to Captain Sharp, and inform him that his invitation is unanimously accepted by both passengers and guests, and we will be on board at five o'clock," said Captain Ringgold, addressing the officer from the Blanche; and he went over the side into his boat.
"You don't know!" exclaimed Louis.
They were to the effect that Perbut Lalleejee would celebrate the marriage of his son that evening, and the favor of the recipient's attendance was requested to a Grand Nautch at nine o'clock.
"So say we all of us," sang the doctor with Sir Modava.
The Hindu gentleman halted at the side of the lady, and burst out into a loud laugh.
"Which, your honor?" asked Bargate blankly.
"But the coming of Havelock was not the end; for the rebels besieged the place again, and it was near the middle of November before Sir Colin Campbell arrived, with a considerable force.
An hour was spent in the drawing-room, as they called the deck cabin, which was as large as the boudoir and music-room of the Guardian-Mother.
And his remarks were warmly applauded by both English and Americans; and the gentleman bowed his thanks for this appreciation of his sentiments.
It went to my heart, and I am sure we who have been saved from perishing in the stormy billows joined heartily with him who officiated in giving thanks to God for our preservation," his lordship began.
The two domes make it look like two pavilions, and in the forward one sits the Guicowar in solemn dignity.
At a rocky point on the river they found a party of half-naked men washing sheets and pillow-cases.
In the pilot-house, with both quartermasters at the wheel, the captain was still observing with his glass the men in momentary peril of being washed from their insecure position into the boiling sea.
The streets are wide, and the buildings are well-constructed, with the wooden balconies you see all over India, and the shops and bazaars may entice the ladies to make purchases.
Shamshar Bahadoor!_" "Exactly so," said Felix in a low tone.
But they had all seen great waves, and they were not anxious to see them here.
"I don't know," replied the third officer with a mischievous smile.
The next forenoon, with the northern shore of Ceylon in sight from the deck, Lord Tremlyn went upon the rostrum, with the map of the island, and a portion of the main shore included, on the frame.
It was full of game of all sorts, including the wild buffalo, rhinoceros, tiger, leopard, wild hog, deer, and the trees and bushes were as full of monkeys as they could swarm.
"I extend to you, Sir Modava, and Dr.
This snake is given to hiding himself in the gardens around the bungalow for the purpose of preying on the domestic fowls.
"In the hospital for lame ducks and superannuated bullfrogs we visited in Bombay, do they take in sick cobras?" asked Felix.
One took an iron hoop from a pile of them, and set it to spinning on a pole in the air.
The bodies are exposed on an iron grating, where the carniverous birds of the air can get to them until the flesh has all disappeared.
You need not believe it is genuine if you prefer not to do so." They were also permitted to gaze at one of Mohammed's old shoes, a belt, and some of the clothing of the Prophet.
"I did not know what I am saying now till this morning; for I have been studying the 'Statesman's Year-Book,' in order to comply with the commander's request.
You have been told something about it.
"But I can make him into a useful cane." Sir Modava interpreted his remarks, and the fellow picked up his snake, and walked before the audience, using it as a staff, and pretending to support himself upon it.
"I beg your pardon, but you asked me simply for the run to-day." "Isn't that the same thing?" "Will you please to tell me how many hours there are in a sea-day?" asked Scott, becoming more serious.
Around his dress he wears a red band, which he twists about his limbs, and has a long calico tunic closely fitted to his chest.
The social occasions, the playing of the band, and the singing in the music-room, made plenty of variety.
Two of them went through a very lively performance, leaping and whirling very rapidly.
"We are within three hours' sail of the longitude of that bay, but a hundred and fifty miles south of it," said the commander.
The treaties with the Indian princes contained a clause forbidding it.
Ferrolan, who had a fine bass voice, was invited to sing "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep," at the suggestion of Lord Tremlyn.
At the end of the four arms hung ropes with sharp hooks at the end, on which were hung up the devotees, as the butcher does his meats in his shop; and the machine was revolved rapidly till the hooks pulled out, and the victim dropped upon the ground, fainting or dead.
Captain Sharp and his wife declared this was the red-letter week of their lives; but the commander of the Blanche insisted that he must take his ship around to Calcutta, and left by train for Bombay the day before the company departed.
"I shall not take more than half an hour for what I have to say, my much-loved friends," the Hindu gentleman began, "though I know you are very patient and long-suffering; and I assure you that I shall not take offence if you look out the windows while I am talking.
"Is it after schnakes?" "No; but after tigers." "But I want to hunt some schnakes; I'd loike to bring down a good-soized cobry," said Felix, rising from his reclining posture.
"I have seen them do so in North Carolina," added Morris, who had travelled in the South with his parents.
"The women of this sect here do not veil their faces as a rule." "They are quite good-looking," added the New York magnate.
The temple is in the form of a cross, the main hall being a hundred and forty-four feet in depth.
To forward this charity, the wealthy of this sect have contributed money for the foundation and endowment of hospitals for the care of sick and wounded animals, and even of those permanently disabled." "What a beautiful idea, if it is heathen!" exclaimed Mrs.
They are divided into four grand classes, called castes.
"I am willing; for, though they eat them in some countries, I don't hanker after any monkey-flesh," replied the young hunter.
Louis Belgrave was with his mother and Miss Blanche.
The Indian treasury contributes annually to the expense of this force.
The Mohammedan magnates had kept the general very busy, night and day, and _fêted_ him like a king.
"They are not Mohammedans," suggested Mrs.
"While they are preparing, we will consider the programme of the tour." "Very well, your Lordship; I will have the party notified.
He made out the ominous sounds, and judged that they came from a point not more than a mile distant.
Madras dates from 1639, Bombay from 1686, Calcutta from 1686.
In like manner all the performers went through their several parts, imitating various musicians on different native instruments.
The Orient line of steamers, whose principal business is with Australia, sends some of its ships here; and most steamers of the Peninsular and Oriental line, called the 'P.
As the company returned from the platform, a gun from the Blanche attracted their attention.
About all the great structures here are built of red sandstone, with marble bands on many of them, so that it is hardly necessary to mention the material, unless it varies from the rule.
Wud I foind ary cobry in here?" "All you'll want uv 'em; and pythons too." "What is a poithon?" asked Felix.
All the passengers went below to prepare for the dinner.
Felix brought down a couple of cobras; and killing them seemed to be his forte.
"The expression 'falls into the main line' is somewhat different from what we use at home; but the young man ought to have understood you," interposed the commander.
Like all sects, they are fully tolerated by the British government, and are considered one of the most respectable and thriving classes of the community.
"Then I shall have an additional reason to remember with gratitude the young gentleman," added Lord Tremlyn.
Sayad and Moro were retained, however; for they were more intelligent than the others, spoke English better, and were more enterprising, frequently suggesting some means of amusement to them.
"The navy of the East India Company was superseded by the royal navy in 1863; and a dozen or fifteen ships of war are stationed in these waters, with an admiral as commander-in-chief, whose headquarters are at Bombay.
It was a great hunt, and the Americans were correspondingly proud of their success.
As you look at it you observe that it has the same structure as some of the grasses, the same joints and cells.
It was Sir Modava who mounted the platform for this occasion; and he was received with the heartiest applause, for he had become even more popular than at first.
Three military officers were also in attendance, appointed to render all the assistance to the company they needed.
The gentlemen cheered, and the ladies waved their handkerchiefs.
"The left bank of the Ganges is the one Benares is on," replied the worthy woman; and she was greeted with a roar of laughter, and a volley of applause started by the live boys who were making their way across India.
Belgrave pulled the stroke oar in the boat which picked you up after you had sent our first cutter to the relief of Sir Modava," interposed the commander.
Louis put a bullet into the eye of one, and Mr.
"He is the embodiment of wisdom, prudence, and commerce; his presence wards off all perils.
Boulong, laughing at the absurdity of the story; but the pilot knew nothing about dollars, and perhaps the reports had been swelled by changing the unit of American currency into that of the British Empire.
They all declined to attend a fight between a couple of coolies, with horn spikes attached to their hands, for this was worse than a prize-fight.
The third person brought in by the second cutter was the Hindu cook of the wrecked steamer; but he spoke English very well, and had been otherwise Europeanized.
A ready seaman seized him by the arm, and, with the aid of another, hauled him into the boat, where he was passed into the stern-sheets.
"Before I answer your question, my dear Louis, I must protest against being any longer addressed as captain, for I am not now entitled to that honorable appellation," replied the young man addressed by the owner.
The king was as familiar with all the members as though they had belonged to his own household.
"I'll be most happy to introjuce you to four uv 'em I killed," added Felix; and Scott was convinced against his will, and the dead serpents were put on the wagon.
"Aden, from which we sailed the other day, is in longitude 45° east.
"That's a mongoose," said the latter.
"Now you can see the islands more distinctly," said Lord Tremlyn to his group.
I cawn't say all there is to be said about the people of India in an hour, or even two or three hours." The noble gentleman was an easy, pleasant, and fluent speaker, evidently quite accustomed to addressing public assemblies; but he had certain peculiarities of speech, a very few of them, which sounded just a little odd to the Americans, as doubtless some of their pronunciation did to the Britons.
I wonder that all of them have not been knocked off before this time." "They must have some strong hold on the thing that floats them, whatever it is, for they are under water half the time," replied Scott, who was also using a spyglass.
This was a sort of incense-censor, in which perfumes were burned, and from which a column of blue vapor proceeded.
As you see, they have humps like a camel, though much smaller, in front of which is the yoke," the Hindu knight explained.
Her education was neglected, and she is rather tonguey, so that she asks curious questions; but we all esteem her very highly, though her American peculiarities may seem very odd to you." "I have known similar people in England, and your description of her leads me to respect the lady," replied the titled gentleman, who appeared to be very democratic so far as homely merit was concerned.
We are used to snakes in India, and we don't mind them half as much as you think you would if you lived here.
"Has any one counted the number of men on the wreck, or whatever it is?" inquired the commander.
"What are we to do with them, my Lord?" asked the captain.
Many thousand natives die every year from snakebites.
"It is not a national salute, so far as I know, and I am utterly unable to say what it means." But as soon as the firing ceased a signal number went up to the fore-peak.
CONCERNING THE GEOGRAPHY OF INDIA.
Then the eldest son came to the scene, howling his grief and beating his breast.
Warm baths were ready for them when they took possession of the apartments.
Its value varies with the gold price of silver in London.
It was so violent the beasts dropped upon their knees forward.
Of course they could make out but little from the vast maze of streets, but some of them obtained a very good idea of the situation of the city and many of its important buildings.
Woolridge, with a look of disgust on his face.
Of a hundred and fifty kinds of snakes, only about twenty are poisonous.
Belgrave spoke to us in this connection.
The captain then invited the two titled gentlemen and the doctor of the party to the cabin, while the two engineers were turned over to Mr.
"All this is more luxurious than we have been accustomed to lately," said Lord Tremlyn, when the commander ushered him into No.
It reaches into the water, so that they can fill their washtub without going out of it." "I don't see why?" asked Mrs.
They have always been a warlike people, and wrested the country from the Mogul emperor, sometimes called the Grand Mogul, and made themselves a powerful people.
They are quite prepossessing, and many of their ladies are remarkably beautiful, though I have seen a fairer American than any one of them.
Boulong was an exceptionally skilful officer in the handling of a boat in a heavy sea.
As this one stood up Felix could see the top of his head, and he decided to use his revolver first.
After the cavalry came a troop of dromedaries with small cannons mounted on their backs, with gunners to work the pieces.
The clothing of the guests had been taken in hand by Sparks and Sordy, the cabin stewards, dried, cleaned, and pressed.
He was employed in the Afghan and Sikh wars; but he had learned 'to labor and to wait,' and he was still a lieutenant after twenty-three years' service.
But all the fun of the fauna is concentrated in the wild animals, such as the tiger (about the gamiest 'critter' that exists), the panther, cheetah, boar, bear, elephant, and rhinoceros.
Blossom, who was struggling to understand the subject.
"Havelock's army now numbered 2,500 men, with seventeen guns.
You will find him over the door of places of business; and contracts open with an invocation to Ganesa, sometimes given by a picture of the god.
Later in the evening Captain Ringgold made a speech complimentary to General Noury, and wished him many happy returns of the occasion they celebrated.
"Of the vast population of India, three-fourths are Hindus in religion.
Boulong's permission." "Granted!" shouted the first officer, who stood within hearing.
Oilseeds, as flax for linseed, are largely exported.
Boulong with energy, when the first cutter was within a boat's length of the individual.
"The expense is a matter of no consequence to the two gentlemen; for both of them would be multimillionaires in America, though pounds don't count so numerously as dollars.
A soldier offered his services as a guide, and they were accepted.
"When I consider what a vast extent of territory you are to explore in India," the speaker began, "I realize that not much of your time must be taken up in long discourses, and especially not in lengthy introductions.
Against this stuffed partition was a low couch, which could be made up as a bed at night, or used as a reclining sofa by day.
A multitude of hideous-looking cripples, humpbacks, and beggars made an onslaught on the steamer; and the boys and gentlemen pelted them with coppers, with which they had been forewarned to supply themselves.
Behind a mass of flowers--cartloads of them--a foreign orchestra was placed.
"We have to pass some rather dangerous rocks in this vicinity, and we shall proceed cautiously till we take a pilot." "A number of large vessels have been wrecked in this locality," said the viscount; "and in a little while you will get in among the multitude of fishing-craft that swarm off the islands." When the company were satisfied that there was nothing to be seen, they resumed their seats, and the "live boys" in the fore-rigging returned to their places.
Please keep to the leeward of the smoke, Captain Carlisle." "That is what I am doing, Sir Modava." "These funeral pyres are burning all the time, night and day.
Promptly at the hour named the carriages set the tourists and their volunteer guides down at the magnificent mansion of the father of the young man who was to enter the marriage state that evening.
The regular police consists of 160,000 officers and men; and a portion of the expense of this force is defrayed by the towns, the large cities mainly.
The peninsula now quite near is Colaba.
The 'suttee,' as the English called the Sanscrit word _sati_ meaning 'a virtuous wife,' was a Hindu institution which required that a faithful wife should burn herself on the funeral pyre with the body of her deceased husband; or if he died at a distance from his home, that she should sacrifice herself on one of her own." "How horrible!
For the benefit of his son he discarded racing from his amusements.
In a short time the saved from the first cutter joined the others on the promenade deck, and the Guardian-Mother proceeded on her course to Bombay.
"The beard of the holy Prophet!" he announced, with a reverent inclination of his head; and the two Mussulmans of the party followed his example.
"It is the great Sowari, a procession such as none of your people ever saw, I will venture to say; and his Highness has provided places for all of you where you can see the whole of it in detail." The king announced this great state occasion himself before the lunch was finished, and gave the visitors a cordial invitation to witness the procession.
The Blanche, the steam-yacht of General Noury, which was only a trifle larger than the Guardian-Mother, rolled even more.
It appeared when Captain Sharp told his story to the commander of the Guardian-Mother at Aden, that Mazagan had been operating on his own hook in Egypt and elsewhere to "blackmail" the trustee of Louis.
Sage's best efforts, and the occasion was as hilarious and as pleasant as it could be.
"This is a very unexpected visit, my Lord, and in a steamer flying the American flag," said he, as the viscount gave him his hand, a piece of condescension he appeared to appreciate very highly.
The Brahmins offered him immense bribes if he would spare the statue of Krishna; but he spurned the money, and destroyed the image with his own hands.
Then we know what time it is.
They look clumsy, but they have to bear up the enormous weight of the hill of rock, and many of them have crumbled away.
The six oars grappled with the water on the smooth side of a great wave, and carried it to the apex of the next billow; and she went off as handsomely as the first cutter had done.
How she happens to be in that situation, and why she has not sunk, are matters yet to be explained.
They were not the men to yield to any odds; and they held their own till November, when Sir Colin Campbell, with 4,700 regulars, forced his way through the enemy, and relieved the place.
"Not at all; most of our streets and buildings are named after persons noted in the history of India," replied the Indian gentleman, laughing.
Statistics say that 20,000 perish in this manner.
"Coffee at six in the morning, breakfast _à la fourchette_ at nine, tiffin at one, and dinner at seven.
It was a magnificent building, whose dimensions the Americans could hardly take in.
"'When an English servant pleads that such a thing is not his place, his excuse is analogous to that of the Hindu servant when he pleads his caste.
It was on the plan of the twitch-up snare, common in New England.
We have a religious service on board at eleven o'clock, to which your party are invited, though no umbrage will be taken if you prefer to absent yourselves." "I shall certainly attend," replied his lordship; and his companions said the same.
"I am very sorry that our party are unable to present to your Highness a gift in keeping with the magnificence of the hospitality extended to us," said the beautiful young lady; "but this package contains the photograph of every member of our company, and we beg that you will accept them as the only tribute of our gratitude for your kindness which is available to us at this distance from our homes.
"But what becomes of the ships?" "The Guardian-Mother will proceed to Calcutta, as soon as we land, in charge of Mr.
The new third officer had been stationed in the watch with Mr.
Divide the knots by the same decimal, and it gives the statute miles." "I will try to remember that decimal as you have done," replied Louis.
It is an occasion at which the native princes acknowledge the sovereignty of the Queen of England.
"This palace was erected at the close of the last century, by Nawab, with half a yard of other names to fetch up its rear," said Major Shandon, the military officer who was doing the honors of the city, with a pleasant smile.
The ladies of the party were presented to the lady.
"Monkeys are as tame as they are mischievous; and doubtless they are tame because they are held to be sacred, and have a better time than they do in Africa and elsewhere.
In the afternoon the rough sea had almost entirely subsided under the influence of the north-east monsoon, and the motion of the steamer was easy and pleasant.
As he does so he announces in good Hindustanee and in a loud voice a proclamation: "_Srimunt Sircar!
The insurrectionists concentrated at Lucknow, the capital, and captured some of the forts, as has been related to you.
I have read of it, but hardly believed it," added the lady; and others who were listening expressed the same feeling.
The party were to dine at the palace with the Guicowar, and it was to be a state dinner.
Early the next morning the party were conveyed to the river, where they embarked in a steam-yacht which had been provided for their use.
Two hundred and fifty soldiers, with as many women and children, the latter in the military hospital, had taken refuge in the fort.
Two of the four in sight were much smaller than the other two, and he could easily believe he had come upon a family of them.
All of them, whether technically religious or not, had been greatly impressed by the music and the speaking of the evening.
Next beyond them were three pilasters clinging to the ceiling.
In 1823 he was made Bishop of Calcutta.
I have taken most of this from a book I found in Bombay." "The most influential caste here are mostly Jains and Buniahs; and though they belong to different tribes, they are united in business matters.
His chosen calling is that of a commercial broker.
Most of them had decided to take things as they came, and accepted the custom of the country without any friction.
He wore a small mustache, but no other beard.
In 1877 her majesty, the queen, assumed the title of Empress of India, and she is the ruler of the country.
"Patna is the fifteenth city in India in population, one hundred and forty miles from Benares," replied the viscount.
The extensive territory included in the delta of the Ganges is called the Sunderbunds, and is about equal to the State of Massachusetts in size.
"There was not a single female on the stage; for the custom of the theatre here does not permit women to appear, any more than it did in the time of Shakespeare." "But I saw them!" exclaimed the surgeon.
Most of the natives, who are oftener the victims of the cobra than the white people, go about in the dark with naked feet, and it is not strange that they are bitten.
"I took care of old Jotham Beeling when he had the apoplexy, and gave the stuff to him.
There are four very handsome Mohammedan mosques here, so our friend the general will have a place to go to on our Friday." The Mussulman bowed, and gave the speaker one of his prettiest smiles.
On the morning following they went on board of the Guardian-Mother, and she sailed for Ceylon.
"There are plenty of deer to furnish a dainty and healthy diet for the meat-eating wild animals, including the lion, which is not much of a king of beasts here, the hyena, the lynx, and the wolf.
This plan was accepted, and the party separated.
This fellow began to beat his instrument with frantic energy, moaning and howling at the same time as though he was in great agony.
The loss of caste has been regarded by the ignorant native here as the most terrible thing that could possibly happen to him; but it is not so in practice, for it has been accomplished by giving a very indifferent supper.
Miss Blanche was walking the deck with Louis on one side of her, and Sir Modava on the other.
The masulah-boats went to the shore very comfortably, and carriages were in waiting for the party on the beach near where they landed.
Scott came in last with only a couple of birds.
For a few minutes there was a lively skirmish between them, the horseman pricking him on the trunk or the flanks, and the rage of the elephant was at its highest pitch.
"What is it, Bangs?" asked the commander at the window of the pilot-house.
Their religion is a mixture of the doctrines of the Prophet and local idolatry; for they have been somewhat infected by the prevailing worship of the natives.
"I suppose it is not given to outsiders to know what all that means?" added Louis.
"Was Sir Modava saved?" he asked, with no little excitement in his manner, as he spit the salt water from his mouth.
In the afternoon they drove out on the plains of Delhi, among the ruins of palaces, tombs, and temples.
"This is the mosque of Aurungzeb.
Both of these rivers are sacred with the natives.
In regard to animals, the tiger does not reside in Ceylon.
He slipped a little in his perch as he discharged the piece, and the ball went through the snake's body, which was furiously mad, hissed and shook himself.
There was a general handshaking with the first officer, in command, and the boys extended this courtesy to all the crews of the boats, going on board of them for a few minutes.
The little snake-killer made a spring at him, and then skilfully whirled himself around so that the snake could not bite him.
There is always a heavy surf rolling in on this coast, even in what the commander would call a smooth sea." "Then how shall we get ashore there?" inquired Mrs.
He was introduced to the members of the "Big Four," who could hardly keep their faces at the proper length after hearing what passed between the youthful sahib and Mrs.
The cranes, herons, and storks were numerous; but the party decided to kill no more of them, for they held still, as though they were all ready to be shot; and there was no sport in such game.
They were naturally filled with curiosity to ascertain who and what the trio were.
As he spoke, a booming billow struck Lord Tremlyn, as the Hindu had revealed his name, just as Scott was running his boat up to take him on board.
A discussion arose as to whether he was a match for a tiger.
His horned foe showed that he had not wholly escaped, for his head was covered with blood.
The Parsees, or Parsis, who were driven from Persia by the Mohammedans, number 76,774 in Bombay,--not the city, but the presidency.
By the way, Louis, multiply the number of statute miles by .87, and it gives you the sea-miles.
They soon arrived at the Victoria Hotel; and the _khidmutgars_, carrying the light baggage, were not behind them, though they had run all the way from the bunder.
The crocodile is the biggest reptile found in Ceylon." "But the snakes, your lordship?" suggested Felix.
They formed in a semicircle before the audience; one of them stepped forward, and turned herself around very slowly and gracefully, with a quivering of the body, like the gypsy girls of Spain, which caused her bells to jingle.
Though these occasions occur all over India, I don't believe there is a single bite the less for them." "It is the anniversary of the killing of the great serpent Bindrabund, which was creating terrible havoc on the shores of the river Jumna, an event in Hindu mythology, which is as true as any mythology," added Lord Tremlyn.
They returned to the palace; and at the breakfast-table Louis told the story of the battle, in which all the Americans were much interested.
"What would you do then?" "Shoot him, of course," replied Scott.
On the elevated platform was a colonnade of the same arches on each side, with a pillared tower at each corner, interrupted only at the grand entrances.
The laws are made by this council, with from six to a dozen members appointed by the viceroy.
He soon obtained a living, and occupied a prominent position among the clergy of his native island.
It was a pleasure to come out of the deep darkness, and he observed with interest the increase of the light.
I think I need say no more about the city till we get there." This talk was followed by a concert by the band.
"I do know the run; but that was not what you asked me," answered Scott with the same mischievous smile.
"In the afternoon, I should have added.
He studied Sanskrit, Arabian, and Persian, and was a profound scholar and philosopher.
On each side of the huge beast was a platform, suspended at the outside by golden cords, on which stood four men very richly dressed.
CHAPTER XVII A HOSPITAL FOR THE BRUTE CREATION The live boys did not care much for the buildings, though most of those of a public character were architecturally very fine.
The government is liberal in the introduction of improvements.
"This chart is an old one, as you may see by the looks of it and the courses marked on it from the Cape of Good Hope," replied the captain, looking at the young officer, to fathom his meaning.
"Thank you with all my heart; but really you must permit me to retire, for I am somewhat fatigued, if you are not, and I shall be happy to contribute to your entertainment at another time," replied the speaker; and he retired from the platform.
A number of the masulah-boats, not the rafts, were engaged to land them.
Belgrave."--Page 184.] After penetrating a dense thicket, the tourists discovered a comely flight of stairs, cut out of the solid rock of which the hill is composed, extending to a considerable distance, and finally leading into the great pillared chamber forming a Hindu temple, though a level space planted with trees must first be crossed.
She had been built with all the strength and solidity that money could buy; and she was as handsome a craft as ever floated, not even excepting her present companion on the stormy sea, and she was proving herself to be an able sea-boat.
As he was about to take his place in the landau, Mr.
Then he took off his head covering, and showed the reptile coiled up within it.
The ship stopped at the mandate of the captain, and the barge was lowered, and brought to the gangway.
The clothing of the poor is scanty and cheap; fuel costs nothing; and rent for dwellings is hardly known.
The steps are adorned with small temples with plenty of spires.
They made an occasional dart at the human performers, who dodged them as though they had been in their native jungles, with their business fangs in order for deadly work.
"Is this account in your handwriting, General?" he asked.
The boy seemed to have a fit, and writhed as though he were in convulsions, finally dropping down into the basket very slowly.
"There is no fun at all in it, and I should like to make them a target for my revolver." "It is about time for tiffin, and we had better return to the hotel," added Lord Tremlyn.
I have made two runs from Cape of Good Hope to Bombay, and we had quiet seas from the latitude of Cape Comorin to our destination both times; and I expected the same thing at this season of the year on this voyage." The captain was evidently vexed and annoyed at the failure of his prediction, though squalls were liable to occur in any locality; but the present rough weather had begun to look like a gale which might continue for several days.
He planted himself on the ground in readiness for a spring.
THE WONDERFUL CITY OF DELHI 276 CHAPTER XXX.
"We know the book-agent better than this one," said Scott.
The next city of any importance to which we shall come is Jeypore, and we shall dine there." When the train stopped for water a lunch was sent to the compartments, to which all the passengers now retired for the rest of the day.
He was a nervous and highly sensitive person, and there was always a smile on his face.
"It is the house usually occupied by Europeans here.
They stopped at another black mosque, near which was a handsome pavilion, which had been the library of the emperors.
The quartet touched their hats to him, and he stopped his steed.
The vessel in which they had foundered had entirely disappeared, and nothing was seen belonging to her.
The Buniahs are always intelligent, and somewhat aristocratic.
Possibly there was some feeling of rivalry among the crews of the boats in the good work in which they were engaged, for they were all putting their utmost vigor into their oars.
Some of the tourists had never seen a cobra, though they are found in Egypt.
It was very late when they retired to rest that night.
CHAPTER XXXIII A STEAMER TRIP UP AND DOWN THE GANGES Clarke's Hotel, at Secrole, received the tourists, and everything was in readiness for them when they arrived.
On this plan he had placed, with the assistance of the commander, the names of the entire party.
"The soldier's sphere is in connection with the State, to support the Brahmin, and execute the laws he makes or interprets.
Boulong was so occupied with his treatment of the first man rescued, that he did not see him, or hear his shout above the noise of the savage waves, and had directed the cockswain to steer for the next man, who seemed to be an older person than either of the others.
A sort of procession was hastily formed with Lord Tremlyn at the head of it; for he was the most distinguished person, and in some sense the representative of the British home government.
They wondered what had become of him.
Boulong, and clear away the first cutter." By this time the Guardian-Mother was on her course to the northward.
"Not at all, though the names of the two may have been derived from the same source.
All the rest of the party expressed their astonishment in terms hardly less strong; and the ladies were even more incredulous than the gentlemen.
"I told them who and what Nana Sahib was." "His first act after taking the lead in the rebellion of the sepoys was to murder one hundred and thirty-six of our people, who were deceived by the sympathy he had formerly manifested for them, and easily fell into his hands.
The producer sends his crop to the government factory, whence it is sold to the exporter; all this to prevent frauds on the revenue.
When he reached his highest condition of perfection, he could recall all these different states of being; and he has written them out.
The number of Christians by the last census was 2,284,380; and I am sorry there are no more of them.
The mollah produced a small golden box, from which he took a silver case.
"During January and February the wind is set down as moderate in these waters.
Blossom about missions here in Ceylon," said the Hindu gentleman as he took the stand.
This quarter was formerly surrounded by walls or ramparts, which have now been removed; but in its limits is concentrated the great wealth of Bombay.
Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava were full of information, which they adorned with stories from history and mythology.
"Millions of the people live in cities and large towns where there isn't a snake of any kind." "Quite true, and, to some extent, the figures do lie; but there are plenty of cobras and other snakes in parts of Bombay, and the figures are not so false as you think, Captain," replied Sir Modava.
MORE OF LUCKNOW, AND SOMETHING OF BENARES 306 CHAPTER XXXIII.
But they were up at six in the morning, and the four boys went out to explore the city by themselves for a couple of hours.
The rest of the day was devoted to rides through the streets and suburbs of the city.
Muttering the name of Allah very solemnly all the time, he unscrewed the top of the receptacle, and took from it a single hair, about six inches long, red and stiff, and fixed in a silver tube.
He had to fire several times to kill the other two; for, as he expressed it, they "would not hold still." But he had killed the four, and felt just as though he had settled the snake question.
As a Frenchman I do not feel at all ashamed of Claude Martine." "You need not, Professor," added the viscount.
They found the rescued party seated on the divans between the doors of the state-rooms, and they all rose to their feet as soon as the commander appeared.
His body is long, even without the portion of it which belongs to his caudal appendage.
"I have seen them do it, but I never took the sun myself," protested the maiden.
He carried a law through the council, making it punishable homicide, or manslaughter, to burn a widow.
"Why not?" "The cobra-de-capello!" exclaimed the magnate.
Four other men were sent aft to assist in the preparations for putting the second cutter into the water; and in as short a time as Mr.
Adil, the other officer, kept near Scott, who appeared to be the most reckless of the four.
The tour of the party is made by railroad in India, from Bombay, taking in Lahore, Delhi, Agra, Cawnpoor, Lucknow, Benares, Calcutta, and by the Guardian-Mother to Madras and Ceylon.
He could not answer this appeal for the want of time, and they passed into a place for birds.
The hour for sailing had been fixed at three o'clock; and just before that time the Cherub, Captain O'Flaherty, appeared, having on board a regimental band and the friends of Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr.
You may find something to amuse you on the way, as we shall walk; for we want to get our sea-legs off," replied Sir Modava.
Woolridge was a millionaire and a magnate of the Fifth Avenue.
Commander, ladies and gentlemen," he began, "I have no claim upon you for the exceeding warmth of the reception you have given me, and I thank you with all my heart for all your kindness to me, a shipwrecked stranger on board of your ship.
The party looked upon these mementoes of the terrible events with mournful interest, and had hardly recovered their usual cheerfulness when they reached the hotel.
"Probably it enabled us to float a short time longer than we should otherwise have done; but the yacht had taken in too much water before we applied the remedy, for suddenly, on the top of a huge wave, she made a heavy roll, capsized, and came up with her keel in the air.
You have not a monopoly of the fast-growing cities in the States." "We have found out that Berlin has increased faster than Chicago," said Uncle Moses with a chuckle; "and Glasgow has got ahead of Liverpool." "Quite true, Mr.
In 1866 the most noted one took place at Agra, a full description of which would require a long time.
The government of the highest resort in the affairs of India is a secretary of state, residing in London.
But I submit, my dear Captain, that there is another side to the question." "Quite true, and I was about to state it.
"But I forget that I was sent here for a purpose by Lord Tremlyn.
On the day after the Sowari the gentlemen of the party were conducted to the arena of the elephants, which was a large enclosure, reminding those who had seen them of the bull-rings of Spain.
This came on the appearance of Henry Havelock, whose noble example of a true life I commend to my young friends here who are just entering upon their careers.
The ceiling is supported by twenty-six columns and eighteen pilasters, sixteen to eighteen feet high.
"A live prince!" "It affords me very great pleasure to become acquainted with you, Mr.
It would be better done as you travel over the country.
"We can only take along with us a few specimens of the wonderful country, and make the best of them." After dinner the party divided up according to their own fancy, and went out to walk, though some were too tired to do so.
Parliament was called together, and the books of the company were examined.
"Captain, dear, are there any schnakes forninst the joongle?" asked the Milesian, who was much exhilarated at the prospect of the sport, and easily slipped into the vernacular of his mother.
The dak-bungalow was the only resort, though a hotel was soon to be opened.
Then his preserver learned that the Pacha had settled his accounts with Captain Mazagan, and sold him the Fatimé.
"From the Blanche, Captain." "But it seems to be a band.
"But what is a durbar?
It was a terribly exciting and harrowing spectacle; but the commander looked as impassable as ever.
At eighteen Louis was a healthy, vigorous, athletic fellow, developed by an active life on the ocean, and weighing one hundred and fifty pounds.
General Noury, who had been taking leave of his Mussulman hosts, was attended by three of them, who were at once invited by his lordship to join them at dinner, and the band of the Blanche had been sent on shore for the occasion.
Natives who were too poor to pay the bill for the funeral pyre threw the bodies of their friends into the river.
"There is still a great deal to be said about India, and I am trying to dispose of some of the dryest subjects first.
Its name was Indrapechta, which it holds to the present time among the learned Hindus, so that the city appears to have existed while Egypt was still in its infancy.
"Thirty years ago coffee was the principal commercial production of the island; but a kind of fungus attacked the leaves of the trees, and within ten years the planters were obliged to abandon its cultivation to a great extent, though it is still raised.
A good breakfast was obtained, and the forenoon was given up to rest; but after a couple of hours in their chambers the company were assembled in the coffee-room.
There were more of them, and they were of a finer grain; in fact, the gentlemen, who were judges, declared that most of them were really pretty.
I have nothing more to say of the island, but after a concert by the band, Sir Modava will tell you something about the principal towns;" and as he retired the audience separated, for it was to be a promenade concert.
The wounded, with the women and children, were sent to the Ganges on elephants.
"I met a man at my father's house who had lived for years in Africa, and he said they ate the boa-constrictor there,--the natives did, not the white people." "So I have heard; but many Hindus never eat meat at all," added Sir Modava, as the party retired to dress for dinner.
It stands on high ground, is walled on three sides, and has ten gates.
"Near it is the presidency jail, and there are two hospitals farther along." The party walked along the road to view the residences of the nabobs, and returned to the hotel, where they seated themselves on the large veranda overlooking the street.
After the Guardian-Mother had sailed on her voyage all-over-the-world, Miss Blanche took a severe cold, which threatened serious consequences; and the doctors had advised her father to take her to Orotava, in the Canary Islands, in his yacht.
"Oodeypore is the capital of a Rajputana state; and its palace is said to be the largest and most magnificent in India, though the town has a population of less than forty thousand.
It was easy for the guests to believe that they had been introduced into the midst of a fairy scene.
"Granted; but one which was intended to test your information in regard to a nautical problem.
Boulong informed the commander that he had received a visit from Captain Mazagan.
For some minutes the giants wrestled together, but the combat proved to be of brief duration.
These were of the upper grade; and all the once-born were called Sudras.
"In the lapse of time the twice-born were divided into three classes, the Brahmins being the priestly class, the Kshatriyas the ruling military, and the Vaisyas the agricultural classes.
They were heroic women, and preferred death to any other fate at the hands of their miscreant captors.
"The civil service of the government is rendered mainly by Europeans, though the natives are eligible to office as employees.
"In fact, there has been a social revolution in progress here for half a century or more, and its effects may be seen now.
"The failure of the Mississippi Scheme, projected in France by John Law to develop the resources of the American State of Louisiana, alarmed the shareholders; but the managers declared that they had avoided the errors of Law in their finances, and the enterprise still prospered.
The little girl had on bagging trousers like the Turkish women, and a heavily embroidered tunic, and both of them wore Indian slippers, with the toes turned up.
It was a happy meeting; but it could not be long continued, and the carriages drove off again.
It has points in which it resembles Christianity.
It was a very pleasant and friendly dispute that followed, and his lordship had carried his point at the close of it.
"No, you wouldn't, Flix," sneered Scott.
"Before the mutiny, one British soldier to six Sepoys was about the proportion between them in numbers.
There were half a dozen musicians, who played upon tom-toms, instruments like a fiddle, and one that was very nearly a hurdy-gurdy, with lutes and flutes.
In six years only out of the last thirty have the fisheries been productive, and in the other twenty-four they yielded hardly anything.
"Don't know him, sir; but they just hauled a man into the first cutter," replied Scott.
When a woman lost her husband, custom required that she should be sent back to her own family.
The Malabar Hindu was not very different from those of other sections of the country, though he had some peculiarities of costume.
Though Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava, with their friends, were invited to the residence of the lieutenant-governor, the party went to the Victoria Hotel, for the viscount thought it would be an imposition to quarter them on the chief authority, being eighteen in number.
"With the ordinary sights of India you are already somewhat familiar; and, aside from what you may see in any city here, there is not much to interest you, with the grand exception of the Taj, and some of the mausoleums, of which I will say nothing, as we are now to visit them." The company retired early, and after breakfast the next morning the carriages were at the door.
"You found what you were looking for, and that was no accident.
The victor had lost a great deal of blood from a bad wound in the neck, and it was a question whether or not he would die; but he did not; he recovered, and before the tourists left India Sir Modava learned that he had been killed in a battle with a smaller tiger than the first.
The interpreter told them it was Rishi, a supernatural power, a genius who is a protector to those who need his services.
The party were immediately beset with servants offering them fruit and sherbets, and they were sprinkled with rose-water from silver flagons.
In one of them they were invited into a small rear saloon, magnificently furnished, where they were presented by Lord Tremlyn to a Parsee gentleman.
"Some of the negroes of Africa have this belief, and when a child is born they decide upon the ancestor whose soul has returned to the flesh in this world.
The beautiful young lady entirely recovered her health during the voyage, and Dr.
We sailed for Aden, believing we should have the calm and pleasant weather of the north-east monsoon.
"You know the location of the island on the southeast of India, and it takes in about four degrees of latitude and two of longitude, without going into the matter too finely, with an area of twenty-four thousand seven hundred and two square miles; about the size of your State of West Virginia, I find, or as large as three or four of your New England States.
"Blessed be the mother of such a boy!" The members of the Woolridge family were next presented to the trio; and the distinguished strangers had something pleasant to say to each of them.
Belgrave, if I suggest that it is not wise and prudent to laugh in the midst of such a spectacle as this.
Besides the city police, there are 560,000 in charge of the villages.
"As Govind told me, all the female parts were taken by boys remarkable for their beauty and the sweetness of their voices," added his lordship.
Oi've not been introjuced to 'm." "Are you going among elephants, Flix, and don't know what a pachyderm is?" demanded Scott.
In those six years, the largest yield, in 1881, was not quite sixty thousand pounds, while the smallest noted was ten thousand pounds.
"They are lowering the boats," added Louis; and in a few minutes the barge and first cutter came up to the shore.
The constabulary are natives, with European officers, one to every seven square miles and 1,300 inhabitants, indicating peaceful communities.
"We owe our lives to the fortunate presence of your magnificent steam-yacht in this part of the Arabian Sea.
Between him and the three snakes there was a small pool of water, half concealed by the bushes, and the reptiles had probably come there to drink or to obtain for food some of the amphibious creatures that lived there.
At the end of this time the commander descended to his cabin, inviting Scott to go with him.
There are two sides to this question, Captain." "Then you fight on the other side, though you hold the purse-strings," said the commander.
The commander and I agreed to a second." "What do you mean by saying you do not know the run?" demanded Louis.
I did not expect such a nasty time as we are having of it," added the commander.
"Certainly it is," replied Sir Modava.
The enthusiastic sportsman had hardly begun to climb the tree before he heard a hissing behind him, and discovered another cobra.
From Aden to Bombay he had drawn a red line, indicating the course, east by north a quarter north, which was the course on which the steamer was sailing.
You can see a thousand heads in the water along the shore at any moment.
"I think I know a woman when I see one, though I am an old bachelor, and rather a tough one at that." "Not always, Doctor; for not one of those you call girls was a female.
"But with all that could be mustered they were only a handful of men compared with the hosts that surrounded them, and in turn they were at once besieged by the rebels.
"He is really Vishnu, one of the Hindu trinity, known as the preserver.
"Not at all, for the Guicowar is as brave a man as ever put a foot into shoe-leather, or went barefooted," replied Lord Tremlyn, "though there is a little exaggeration common to the Orient in the proclamation." As his Majesty came in front of the veranda the party rose and saluted him with low bows, and the waving of handkerchiefs by the ladies.
The civil service prevails in the provinces and states of India as well as in the general government, though the competition is open to the natives.
Ferrolan struck up this refrain, singing with a vigor which proved his earnestness.
It has recovered what it lost, and is now steadily increasing in population and wealth." "I never heard of the South Sea Bubble of which you speak," said Louis.
Louis took Miss Blanche to the place next to his mother, and seated himself at her right.
"There are scores of snakes brought before you; but they have had their poison fangs extracted, and they could not harm you much more than a playful kitten.
A band of native musicians was playing near them, and the party wondered what this display could mean; but Sir Modava was unable to inform them.
The principal entrance to the garden is more elaborate and beautiful than the fronts of many noted mosques, for it is adorned with towers crowned with cupolas.
"At first those were very interesting; but we have seen enough of them." "I supposed so," added Lord Tremlyn.
"But we do not separate just yet; and I have another favor to ask of you, Captain Ringgold, which is that you will give us a passage to Colombo," added Lord Tremlyn.
After breakfast carriages were at the door to convey the party to the more interesting sights of the city.
The party greatly enjoyed the ride back to Secrole, which is the English town of Benares.
"You will not get badly spoiled before you fall in with all you will wish to see." "Then I will bag some of them," added Felix.
"Have you recovered from the fatigues of Saturday, Mrs.
As they were passing out of Baroda, the viscount called their attention to a building at some distance from the road, and called it a "travellers' bungalow." It was a very comfortable house, where tourists may find hotel accommodations, though they are hardly hotels.
The material of their dresses was various, some of it quite rich, with pearls and gold in places.
Multiply the longitude by four, and the result in minutes is the difference of time between Greenwich and Aden, 180 minutes, or three hours.
His influence assisted in the abolition of the suttee, and in bringing about other reforms.
I understand that this was the subject to be treated by Captain Ringgold; and I am confident that he could have done it quite as well as I can, though I am 'to the manner born.' But I will proceed with the subject, without wasting any more of your valuable time.
The driver seemed to be seated behind, and one of the women was on the floor in front of the two who were seated.
"We will now drive to one of these hospitals.
FELIX MCGAVONTY BRINGS DOWN SOME SNAKES 237 CHAPTER XXVI.
during February and March, blowing for six days together.'" "This gale, for such it appears to be, instead of a mere squall, as I supposed it was at first, has come before it was due by a few days; but it proves that what you have read is entirely correct," said the commander.
We put on our life-preservers, and prepared for the worst.
At the blast of a bugle all the men in the ring suddenly deserted it.
The pillars, arches, and ornaments were similar, though not the same.
A door flew open, and a fine looking fellow, mounted on a magnificent horse, dashed into the arena.
The journey to Baroda would occupy hardly more than three hours, and these elaborate arrangements were scarcely necessary for the time they were to be used; but the members of the party looked upon them with especial interest in connection with the long travel to Lahore, and that which was to follow to Calcutta, though they were to break the journey several times on the way.
From the ghat, they walked into one of the crowded streets.
"You go to Surat, and from there across the country;" for the conductors had decided not to go to Kurrachee.
"He is not a dead one, sure," replied the Milesian, "though he would soon have been a very dead one if we had not happened along when we did." "One of them was a colored man," added the good lady.
"I trust we shall be able to save the whole of them." "The chances are good for it," answered the second officer.
The custom is really discontinued, though an occasional instance of it comes to light." The dancing had been renewed, and this conversation continued till later.
"He succeeded to abundant wealth at the death of his brother in 1811.
THE POPULATION AND PEOPLE OF INDIA 109 CHAPTER XIII.
Is it something good to eat?" "They do not eat it here, and probably it would be indigestible if they could do so," continued Sir Modava.
I am to tell you something about the Mahrattas, which is the name of the people who inhabited the region north of us.
The silver _rupee_ is the unit; though when you see 'R.x.' over or at the left of a column of figures, it means tens of _rupees_.
They were visited by British civil and military officers, who were extremely kind to them, and offered them every facility for seeing the city.
The better class of them, in contact with the English, realize that education is a power; and they have labored for years to improve their countrymen.
Blossom, who evidently mistook the meaning of the term used.
A successful conspiracy enabled him to convey her to Bermuda.
This excellent map behind me, which is worthy of the highest praise as a home-made production, will enable me to give you a better idea of my subject." "The ingenious artist has colored the different divisions so that you can make them out.
A young man who was very swift of foot was closely pursued by the elephant, and had reached the door, when he was seized by the arm, tossed in the air, and came down heavily on the ground.
"As you have learned, it is the holy river of the Hindus; and it deserves their homage, for, aside from the religious character they give to it, three hundred thousand square miles are drained and fertilized by the Ganges and its tributaries.
It is applied to the south-west winds of the Indian Ocean, changing to the north or north-east in the winter.
This man is your servant, your waiter." "But what are we to do with such a lot of them?" inquired Mrs.
The distinction is sometimes the result of occupation, branch of trade, or some accidental circumstance.
Belgrave was sorry that such a fine-looking gentleman should have to talk about snakes.
His father was a merchant, and he was well educated.
"I have killed my serpent!" exclaimed the Hindu with a groan.
The captain was a very gentlemanly Englishman; and he was all devotion to the wants of his passengers, who seated themselves on the promenade deck.
He was not inclined to take the special arm-chair assigned to him, but walked about, speaking to his guests, not omitting the boys, to whom he appeared to have taken a fancy.
"But all these sects and castes are divided again into tribes and trade societies.
He had no adequate weapon for this unequal and unfair warfare.
He then invited them all to dine with him that day, as he had evidently intended to do in the morning, for the dinner was all ready when they arrived at his palace.
Scott!" exclaimed Miss Blanche with a silvery laugh.
He was very richly dressed, and he was a gentleman of unbounded suavity.
The person must be born again, and then become a god, or the vilest creature that crawls the earth, according as he has behaved himself.
They soon came to the traps.
On this Sunday they were conducted to a Sunday-school of two hundred scholars, under the direction of the missionaries, though the teachers are mostly natives.
His fangs are in his upper jaw.
The elephant looked about him for any new assailant, and was immediately provided with one.
"But time and Christianity will yet do their work, and my country will be saved.
A man born into one of these associations having a particular business cannot take up another calling without being pinched by the social law in all that he holds dear in life.
The three doctors formed a trio by themselves, and were discussing jungle fever, which existed in the low lands beyond Byculla.
The last to be shipped was W.
I beg you will raise no objections, my dear sir, and I shall feel very much wounded if you do not accept the hospitality I tender to you.
"Ask the general to come here," he said in a low tone to the steward.
THE TERRIBLE STORY OF CAWNPORE AND LUCKNOW 296 CHAPTER XXXII.
The officers and engineers not on duty, as well as the members of the party from the wreck, gathered at the windows of the music-room, and the commander invited them to take seats in the apartment, thus adding still more to the volume of the harmony.
"The next battle will be a noble one, and immense wagers are depending upon the result," replied the Hindu gentleman.
The young man went back to the steamer, and by skilful management obtained all the plunder of the villain, who sailed for England without his treasure.
The Sudra is the servant of all the others.
"Captain----" "Captain Ringgold," prompted Mr.
The water here is excellent, for it is brought from a lake fifteen miles north of us.
He dropped on the ground, and headed for a thicket; but this was just what Dinky wanted.
"I have seen plenty of them in Bombay; and upon my word and honor, I don't feel at all afraid of them.
"The English-speaking people of India are a mere bagatelle compared with the enormous population, being only 238,499; but with the army they have been able to hold the country in subjection.
"You have already taken the son," replied Scott; but he meant the son of Mrs.
Then came a camel bearing two bearded men on his back.
Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava could not in a lifetime discharge their obligations to their friends who had entertained them like princes on board of the Guardian-Mother.
Though the ship was in ten degrees of north latitude, the weather was delightful and the sea was smooth.
The ladies were assisted to the shore first.
The palace at Jeypore is half a mile long, and contains one seventh of the area of the town.
If I remember rightly, it was $125,400; and that of the governor of Ceylon is $20,000," replied Lord Tremlyn.
In the north-east it exceeds 75 inches, and in one remarkable year 600 inches fell at an observatory in north-east Bengal.
"We do; but we never have them at this season of the year; they come in May, September, and October, and sometimes in November the belated ones.
As far as we had influence, we have used it to promote the objects of your visit." "You have done a hundred times more than we had any right to expect, and certainly we should not have asked for what you have given us; but it seems to be no more than right that we should pay our own expenses, and we shall be just as grateful to you for the vast service you have rendered us." "What we have done does not extinguish a tithe of our obligations to you and your ship's company.
"Havelock was born in 1795.
"I am very fond of music, and I think it will afford us all a great deal of pleasure; of course I mean at my own expense." "I beg your pardon, General Noury, but it must be at my expense," interposed Lord Tremlyn.
ADAMS * * * * * PREFACE "Across India" is the first volume of the third series of the "All-Over-the-World Library," in which the voyage of the Guardian-Mother is continued from Aden, where some important changes were made in the current of events, including the disposal of the little steamer Maud, which figured to a considerable extent in the later volumes of the library, though they also comprehended the addition of another and larger consort to the ship, in which the distinguished Pacha, as a reformed and entirely reconstructed person, sails in company with the voyagers.
"That's what's the matter, is it?" added Scott.
"When the processions reach the river, they embark in fairy-like boats propelled by sails or oars, forming a grand aquatic spectacle.
I saw that number saved myself." The details of the wreck of the Travancore were fully explained, though individuals continued to talk about it until lunch-time.
"Colombo is the capital of Ceylon.
At a pleasant basin, dinner was served on board, and it was quite as good as they would have obtained at the Great Eastern; for just now the party were government guests, and the officials could not do enough for a person of Lord Tremlyn's influence in England.
Gaskette?" asked the commander of the only person besides the two quartermasters who remained with him in the pilot-house.
THE FLORA AND THE SNAKES OF INDIA 90 CHAPTER XI.
At the mid-day repast the commander gave up his plan of seating the party, and invited the members of it to select their own places; and they all took those they had occupied at breakfast.
Belgrave, who was strongly tempted to kiss the little fellow; but she was afraid it would not be in order, and she refrained.
The 'Bubble' had burst, as it did in Bombay.
The coffee, sugar, tobacco, and spices are somewhat inferior to those of Java, Sumatra, and Celebes.
His companion was a learned Frenchman, afflicted in the same manner as his friend; and he became the instructor on board.
The Mosque of Pearls is a small building of white marble on a rose-colored platform.
His only son, more patriotic than his father, had enlisted in the loyal army, and had been severely wounded in the brave and faithful discharge of his duty, and returned to the home of his childhood a wreck of his former self.
Now, if you look beyond Fort William, you will see the race-course." "I don't care for that," replied Mrs.
It is four hundred and twenty miles by rail from Calcutta, and is on the left bank of the Ganges.
Scott saw the vessel, but she was too far off to be made out.
They passed out of the hotel; and the first thing that attracted Louis's attention was a palanquin.
When I was a young man I had a taste for the sea, as most boys have, and I read Marryat's novels with immense pleasure.
The howdah was surmounted by two pyramidal roofs, one in front of the other, supported by small columns.
In this scheme Louis, after he had obtained the evidence of the jockey's villany, went on board of the steamer which was to convey them all over the ocean, and succeeded, with no little difficulty, in convincing his mother of the unworthiness of her husband; and she returned with her son to Von Blonk Park.
But it was already proved that he was a reformed man, and had entirely changed his manner of life.
We had our life-preservers on, and we made fast the lines forward, which saved us from being washed off the bottom of the vessel.
When the morning watch came on duty at four o'clock, Captain Ringgold was pacing the promenade deck, peering through the darkness, and observing the huge waves that occasionally washed the upper deck.
"I haven't seen an elephant since I came here." "Elephants are not worked in this country," added Morris.
If I ever had the blue book of which you speak, I haven't it now; and I forget all about it." "I bought that chart at Aden the first day we were there, when I expected to navigate the Maud to Bombay; and with it came the blue book, which treats mainly of winds, weather, and currents," added Scott.
The magnificent temple is placed in the centre of a garden nine hundred and sixty feet long by three hundred and thirty in width, filled with avenues flanked with cypress-trees, and planted with flowers, on a terrace of sandstone.
"I was asked just now by Mrs.
"I don't wish to be intrusive, Captain Ringgold, but I thought it was possible that you had forgotten this paragraph," said the young officer, with abundant deference in his tone and manner.
The mahout is the fellow that sits on the elephant's neck and conducts him.
The wall of the esplanade was a continued series of pointed arches, with a handsome frieze above it.
Two kinds of crocodiles (not alligators) live in the mud and water of the rivers; and I suppose they snap up a man or woman when they get a chance, as they do in the Philippine Islands and other countries.
He wanted to see Captain Ringgold, but did not state his business.
"India is remarkable for its fertility, and its luxuriant growth of plants of all sorts, from the productions of the torrid zone to those of the temperate in the hilly regions of the north.
The train crossed a bridge, which brought them into the suburbs of Baroda.
Then they argued the question for a time; but the captain finally granted the new officer's request, praising him for his modesty, which was rather a newly developed virtue in his character.
The island is Massera on my chart." "They mean the same locality.
"I only know enough about it to put it in my apple-pies when I make them." "This island produces the finest article in the world.
The captain stated what the hunter had done, as he rang to stop and back the boat.
Another cobra was put in his place at the bowl, and his persecutor sat down on the ground with him, fooling with him as though he had been a kitten or a pet dog.
But I do not quite understand how you found out what time it was at noon to-day," added the young lady.
For the first time after the establishment of the Empire of India, the governor-general, representing the empress, received the homage of twenty-six sovereign princes.
Felix had gone aft with the first officer, and had assisted in shoving out the first cutter from the skids inboard, and Louis had come into the pilot-house with Scott.
For some reason not then apparent, this man at once became the enemy of Louis Belgrave; and the war between them raged for several years, though the young man did all he could to conciliate his stepfather.
We owe our lives to you, and we believe we may contribute to your pleasure and instruction; for we are at home here." "We did only our duty when we found you on the wreck; and anything in the nature of a recompense for the service which every sailor owes to his fellow-men, or to those who sail on the seas, would be repugnant to me, as it would be to my officers," replied Captain Ringgold.
It is not as prevalent in India proper as formerly; though it is still dominant in Ceylon, Napaul, Burma, and in the more northern countries of Asia.
BELGRAVE" 184 "HE SAW A HUGE COBRA DIRECTLY IN FRONT OF HIM" 242 "THE STRIPED BEAST WENT UP INTO THE AIR" 263 "CAPTAIN RINGGOLD BROUGHT DOWN ANOTHER" 349 * * * * * ACROSS INDIA CHAPTER I ABOUT FINDING THE LONGITUDE "Well, Captain Scott, what is the run to-day?" asked Louis Belgrave, the owner of the steam-yacht Guardian-Mother, which had at this date made her way by a somewhat devious course half way round the world, and was in the act of making the other half.
Belgrave asked what he said; he replied that he was uttering invocations to the serpents, and entreating the whole tribe of snakes not to bite the people.
"They may be for aught I know," replied his lordship.
"That stockade contains a big trough for washing their scanty clothing.
The Hindus are very exclusive until you get acquainted with them, and have a great many prejudices which we cannot comprehend.
"I can take care of myself for a while longer." Mr.
One of the larger ones was within twenty-five feet of him, and he used his repeating rifle this time.
The second officer of the ship was there; and he was not only a sailor and an artist, but he had the reputation of being a dead shot.
The steamer cast off her fasts, and headed for Calcutta; but it was late, and the fish presented, which abound in the markets of the city, were the burden of a fine supper they ate on the way.
The boys had been happy all the time.
The Buddhists do not appear to have any idea of a personal God; and they are practically atheists, though there are many good things in their system.
Then he dropped off into the water.
It had the autographs of Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr.
"I think they are horrid," added Miss Blanche.
"There are none here to see; and we shall remain here only long enough to see the sites connected with the mutiny." "I should like to hear the story of the mutiny over again," added the lady.
One of the _sapwallahs_, who wore nothing but a turban on his head and a fringed cloth about his loins, went to one of the bowls from which half a dozen cobras were feeding, and taking hold of one of them, pulled him away from the milk.
She soon entered the Tapti River, fifteen miles from its mouth.
"Are all the animals fawns?" asked Mrs.
He was followed by Dr.
"Good gracious!" exclaimed the motherly lady.
They have established schools and colleges, and when young natives applied for government situations the authorities felt obliged to admit them.
"There are fourteen hundred and fifty Hindu temples, pagodas, and shrines, and two hundred and seventy-two Mohammedan mosques, so that our good friend, General Noury, need not neglect his devotions." "The good Mussulman never does that, whether there be a mosque at hand or not, for he says his prayers at the proper time, wherever he may be," replied the general.
I base my views on what I have heard them say, and what I feel myself," said the doctor with enthusiasm.
After a run of eight hundred and sixty miles, it falls into the Ganges about three miles below Allahabad.
He was caught just in the comb of the wave, and it upset him, making him turn a complete somerset, as his companion had done; but he was master of himself, and when he came up, he appeared to dive through the crest of another billow, and came out close alongside Scott's boat, near the bow.
The captain and the second officer continued to watch the party on the wreck, expecting every moment to see some of them swept into the savage waves that beat against their frail support.
Of this belief there are about 200,000,000 people.
It contains a temple of Juggernaut, in honor of Vishnu, in which is an idol of this Hindu god, called Jagannath, which is mentioned in history as far back as A.D.
The small discontents clustered around this grand error, and broke out in the mutiny.
CHAPTER XII THE POPULATION AND PEOPLE OF INDIA "Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to appear before you, and to look you all in the face," his lordship began as the applause subsided.
Over it was a swinging couch suspended by straps, which could be folded up, or be entirely removed, and formed a couch like the one below it.
The population in 1891 was 3,008,466.
He did very well with it in his peculiar way; and since that he is one of the most interested in the lectures,--or perhaps I had better call them simply talks," added the commander.
The sights were not novel enough to hold them; and when a driver of a bullock-cart salaamed to them, and pointed to his vehicle, Felix suggested that they should take a ride.
The big wave comes up the river at the rate of twenty miles an hour.
"Have we really a live lord on board, Felix?" asked Mrs.
"The name India is now given to the peninsula lying to the eastward of the Bay of Bengal.
The Dewani-Am was the hall of audiences, from which they passed to the Dewani-Khas, the throne-room, both of which recalled the Alhambra, which they had visited a few months before.
"You know that a chronometer is a timepiece so nicely constructed and cared for, that it practically keeps perfect time.
"I hope you will be able to make yourself comfortable, sir; but your greatest need at the present moment appears to be dry clothing, when you have restored your limbs to their normal condition in the bath, and I will endeavor to supply this want," replied the commander.
The _toreadors_ came with them; but they all refused to fight in this arena, which they declared was not adapted to the purpose, and they went home.
"Thank you, Miss Woolridge," replied the new third officer, raising the uniform cap he had already donned, and bowing as gracefully as a dancing-master.
The reptiles showed their temper as they were taken from the milk by spreading their hoods; but they were so skilfully manipulated that they had no chance to bite.
The East India Company drew up a treaty with the king, transferring to the corporation the government, but providing liberally for the ruler and his family." "The king refused to sign this treaty; the East India Company had been superseded, and the governor-general deposed the king.
A host of servants ushered them into the palace, which Lord Tremlyn said had been appropriated to their use.
Captain Ringgold then followed with an extemporaneous prayer, in which he poured forth his thanks to the God who rules the sea and the land for the mercy that had spared their brothers from other lands from the mighty power of the raging billows.
"It isn't hot at all; it is only 70°." "The glass varies here from 52° to 100°; but we don't get the latter figure except in summer," added Sir Modava.
CHAPTER XXVIII AT THE CAPITAL OF THE PUNJAB An early breakfast was provided for the travellers, and at this repast the farewells were spoken.
The captain of the Guardian-Mother called the attention of the company to the shape of the small bay before them, which looked exactly like a lobster's big claw.
An abundance of easy-chairs was provided for them, and they were made very comfortable.
Louis conducted Sir Modava to the place on the commander's left, and placed his mother next to him.
"The river here is about a mile wide.
They were much like any other boat, though they were paddled, and not rowed.
By this time the action of the waves had separated the party, so that they were scattered over a considerable surface of the breaking billows.
"Captain Sharp is evidently getting up some sort of a frolic." The first gun was followed by a second, and then by a third; and they continued till thirty-one of them had been discharged.
Melanchthon Sage, the chief steward, the day before.
To this extremity is attached a stout cord, and fastened to a stake in the ground.
At the end of the enclosure a heron proudly strutted about with a wooden leg, among lame hens and blind geese and ducks.
He was the son of Siva and Parvati.
The Woolridges had attached themselves to Lord Tremlyn; Louis Belgrave was very likely to be in their company most of the time, and the viscount had manifested no little interest in the young millionaire.
"In India he completed the work which Havelock had begun, and the following year announced to the viceroy that the rebellion was ended.
The party have two ropes stretched the whole length of the bottom, to which they are clinging." "You are right; that is plainly the bottom of a vessel, and I wonder that the craft has not gone down by this time.
The rest of the day was given to rest, though in the evening Sir Modava talked to the tourists about the city.
Belgrave, carried the day with the trustee.
"I don't quite like it." "I don't know that I wonder at the generosity of our hosts," replied the trustee, as he put his fat arm around the neck of Louis, who stood next to him.
The other building, which sometimes robs this one of its honors, is called the Hoosseinabad Imambara; and perhaps the length of the added name may account, to some extent, for the robbery.
They all reached the hotel, and were hungry enough after the long jaunt of the forenoon to appreciate the "tiffin." CHAPTER XIX THE CAVES OF ELEPHANTA The influence of Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava was enough to procure anything in Bombay, and an apartment that served as a special banquet hall had been prepared at their command, and their guests were introduced to it immediately after tiffin.
I have been twice bitten by cobras.
They wore them now, and had returned the borrowed garments.
The governor and a number of officials, the American consul, and others had been invited.
FERROLAN'S EXPLANATION OF THE WRECK 60 CHAPTER VIII.
What is your business on board, Mr.
In half an hour a vehicle was at the door; and the boys were ready, dressed for the hunt, and with their guns in their hands.
"They are in a very dangerous position," said the commander.
Each of them carried such a basket as the party had seen in the square.
They are pessimists, and believe that life, on the whole, is misery, a curse rather than a blessing.
These events on the spot you have visited occurred between the last of May and the first of July.
In fact, he liked the company of the party on board of the Guardian-Mother so well that he was not inclined to part with them at present.
Sir Modava had managed to dismiss more than half of the attendants furnished at first, for all the party declared that such a mob of them was a nuisance; and the others had overcome their repugnance to serving more than one person in the face of dismissal, for their perquisites had already been considerable as they valued money.
But they come down to the river before sunrise and take their swim.
It was mid-summer in the middle of the winter, as they looked at it; for the almanac of home lingered in their minds, though the days were longer.
It continued to blow very fresh, and the commotion in the elements amounted to nothing less than a smart gale.
The name of the great city is from Kali, a Hindu goddess of whom you heard in Bombay, and cuttah, a temple; and doubtless there was such a building here.
I pointed one out to you at Baroda.
A series of buildings formerly composing the grand palace of Shah Jehan have become the fort, overlooking the river, with a fine view of the surrounding country, covered with woods and agricultural grounds.
Vishnu is the Preserver of the Hindu trinity, and therefore in an especial sense the god of the people; and sometimes 100,000 natives gather at this shrine, bringing offerings to the value of nearly £40,000.
Miss Blanche and Louis had retreated to a dryer place than the promenade when the shower of spray broke over the pilot-house upon them, leaving the commander and Mr.
"I may say that if I had gone on board of the Guardian-Mother for the first time in the harbor of Bombay, I should have felt the same, and had just as strong a desire to assist you in seeing India.
I think you will learn all you want to know about snakes as you travel through India." Sir Modava retired with the usual applause.
Either he or one of his predecessors purchased a brilliant for which he paid the bagatelle of four hundred thousand dollars.
By this time the entire crew had rushed to the deck, and were waiting for orders on the forecastle.
A British officer is always at his court, and is called a 'resident,' who is the representative of the government.
Belgrave, as the elephant moved off.
"We have discussed this matter fully, and I have no claim whatever against you; neither has this man.
The band played to the delight of all; and one of the general's friends declared that they had no such music in Bombay, to which he replied that he had engaged the best he could find in Italy.
Ferrolan in a burst of enthusiasm.
Belgrave; for those snakes are as harmless as barnyard fowls, and they don't know enough to bite." "I see that they are not cobras," added Louis, as he returned the revolver to his pocket.
"Aside from the mischief done by Nana Sahib, which seems to have had only a limited effect, what were the causes of this mutiny, Lord Tremlyn?" asked Dr.
The performance was just beginning.
The military band alternated with the Italian, cheers without number rent the air, and the party had all they could do to return the salutes, and answer all the kindly words spoken to them by entire strangers.
He had written to them of his intended visit, and they had taken possession of him on his arrival.
On his return to England he was made a field-marshal, and received a pension of £2,000.
"I had a tame mongoose, a sort of ichneumon.
You can continue your ramble, and your servants can tell you the way, and what the buildings are." The two gentlemen entered the tailor's shop; for there are no stores here any more than in London.
"There seemed to be two other mosques back of the mausoleum," said Mrs.
"An attempt has been made to re-establish this method in our own country.
The most prominent features from the point of observation were a couple of octagonal towers, very richly ornamented, with several small domes at the summit, supported on handsome columns.
"Now you have a view of the Ganges for quite a distance, and can see the kinds of boats that navigate it.
The dinner finished, the party returned to the sitting-room, and found themselves very nearly alone.
But the commander was a wealthy man himself, and a very independent one.
Her ship's company were thoroughly exhausted when the Guardian-Mother, bound to the same islands, discovered her, and after almost incredible exertions, saved the yacht and the family.
But the city, when you get into it, will disappoint you.
The business of sight-seeing began early the next morning with a visit to the esplanade, which may be called a park, though it contains a variety of buildings besides Fort William, which is half a mile in diameter.
Calicut is on the south-west coast of India, and was a very rich and populous city when it was visited by Vasco da Gama, who was the first to double the Cape of Good Hope, in 1498.
Some of the attendants were rubbing them; others were bringing food and drink to them.
"There are eleven of them," promptly replied Scott, who, as an officer of the ship, was in his element, and very active both in mind and body.
Its scientific name is the _Ficus religiosa_; for it is the sacred fig of India, and it is called the bo-tree in Ceylon.
You are in the ring with the Grand Moguls." "Sir Modava told me that the Maharajah whom we shall visit at Baroda is a great sportsman, and always treats his guests to a hunt," answered Louis.
The principal one was of good size, and on one side was cushioned to the ceiling, so that being "knocked about" did not imperil the traveller's bones and flesh.
After considerable manoeuvring, the snake appeared to have had enough of it, and deemed it prudent to beat a retreat.
Ferrolan, and placed himself and Uncle Moses on each side of him.
Calcutta extends about five miles on the bank of the river, being about two in breadth.
Along the shore The Strand, as it is called the whole length of the city, the jetties, and the landing-stages were crowded with men; for, where labor is so cheap, work is not done by small forces of men.
It was formerly one of the largest and most magnificent cities of the East, as the ruins still indicate.
"A steam-launch shall be provided for all the company, and our obese friends shall be provided with stuffed chairs, for the survey of the river scenes; but carriages can be used in some parts of the city, though what you will desire to see can best be observed from the river; and we can land when you wish to see interiors," added Lord Tremlyn.
Those two lofty minarets are one hundred and forty-seven feet high.
The first sight they saw in the street was a regiment of Punjab sepoys, a well-drilled body of men, not very different from the soldiers they had seen in other countries.
Sir Modava explained that the Mohammedans of Bombay were more orthodox, or strict, in the observance of the requirements of their religion than in Bengal; for a considerable proportion are direct descendants from the original stock who had emigrated to India from Persia.
To throw a company of a dozen and a half upon the generous hospitality of private individuals, or even public officials, seemed like an imposition to him.
THE WRECK IN THE ARABIAN SEA.
Of course this was a menace to the health of the city; and the practice was forbidden by the government, which built an immense tower, wherein is kept a fire constantly burning, in which the bodies of the poor are consumed without expense." "See that big bird on the shore!" exclaimed Mrs.
Ferrolan at the foot of the printed statement.
"I shall feel better and happier when I have done, in connection with Sir Modava, what I propose, and I beg you will withdraw your objections," persisted the viscount.
When the commander visited the music-room, he was unable to answer any of the questions of his passengers as to the details of the wreck of the Travancore, though he gave the names and quality of the three gentlemen who had been invited to go below.
My friend Captain Sharp appears to be engaged in a frolic this afternoon," replied the commander, shaking hands with the officer.
"There is something like ancient history in connection with Ceylon, dating back to 543 B.C.; but it would be hardly edifying to follow it.
"I have considered the matter.
Near the top of the flight was the Man Munder, the great observatory.
That would be neither decent nor hospitable, and the invitation specially includes them.
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" said Mr.
"You couldn't climb it; and what good would it do you?
Three or four miles off this dock, to the eastward, you saw a couple of islands, the farther one of which is Elephanta, with its wonderful cave, which you will visit.
Their servants appeared to be familiar with the Victoria, and they were taken to their apartments at once.
The passengers took possession of their staterooms, and there was still one left for the general, and the band was quartered in the library.
THE MAGNIFICENT PROCESSION OF THE SOWARI 246 CHAPTER XXVII.
"From the vast emigration to your country, ladies and gentlemen, I suppose there must be a great variety of people on your territory.
Not a large margin; but you must multiply the pounds by five, or nearly that, to reduce them to dollars.
"Now I am going to speak of the people as other than mere numbers; and if I wished to entangle you inextricably, I should go back about 4,000 years, and tell you about the people down to the present time.
Some of them live in the woods, as hermits, or live like monks, till they are said to be absorbed into Brahma.
The government has modified the lot of woman to some extent, as you have learned.
"An attempt has been in progress the last twenty years to make a harbor in the shape of an enclosure of strong walls, about half a mile square.
It was drawn by four high-spirited horses; and, though the road was bad, it was driven at a high rate of speed; and in less than an hour they alighted in a wild region, where there was not a building of any kind to be seen.
The Deccan is a portion of the peninsula." "It would take me three weeks to describe all the divisions of India, and I shall not attempt to do it.
"Formerly the figures on a timepiece in Italy, and perhaps elsewhere, went up to twenty-four, instead of repeating the numbers up to twelve; and these diagrams are constructed on that plan," continued Scott.
"What is a dak-bungalow?" asked Louis.
But this name does not belong to a political division," continued the speaker, pointing out every location and river he named.
"I should be exceedingly happy to do so." "Then ask Mr.
"I brought out my mongoose, but the little rascal has left me." "There he is, just ahead of us," replied Louis.
Then came the news of the surrender of General Lee, and the end of the war in America.
"Madras is the third city in population of India, or next to Bombay, with 452,518 souls, by the census published last year.
The young Hindus presented themselves to all the passengers as they landed, taking their small baggage, canes, and umbrellas.
"Siva selected a young elephant, cut off his head, and affixed it to his son's shoulders; and that is how he happens to have such a head.
The bowman was in position, and leaned over so far to reach the sufferer, that the officer ordered the next two men to seize him by the legs, to prevent him from being dragged overboard.
"He changed its old name to Akbarabad, and the natives call it so to this day." "The termination of that name seems to be very common in India, as Allahabad, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad," added the commander.
The region as they passed out of the city was rural; and finally they came to the great gates of the palace, which they entered.
It is a five-syllable word, but you can easily pronounce it," said Sir Modava, who thought he would "spell" the captain for a time; and he was quite as familiar with the banks of the Ganges.
"I have learned that no Hindu will do more than one kind of work, take care of more than one person; and no groom will take care of more than one horse.
"I think you will find this fish very good," said his lordship, as the second course came on.
The highest is Mount Everest, the loftiest mountain in the world, 29,002 feet; and I could mention several other peaks which overtop any of the Andes.
Blossom declared they must tear them all to pieces, and she was quite indignant at the way it was done.
A ship's company of the highest grade was obtained.
Commander: as merciful as possible.
They saw the catamarans, constructed as the Hindu gentleman had described, paddled on the waves by a single man, wearing a sugar-loaf hat.
His native place was Von Blonk Park, in New Jersey, most of whose territory had been the farm of the young gentleman's grandfather, who had become a millionaire by the sale of his land.
"Is the mahout his schnout?" asked Felix.
The widow had been married at sixteen; and she had the reputation of being the prettiest woman in the Park after her husband died.
They all went to this meeting, including their three distinguished guides.
Belgrave; "we did not visit them." "The Mohammedan traditions require that a mosque should be erected in connection with every mortuary temple," replied Sir Modava.
CHAPTER IX CONCERNING THE GEOGRAPHY OF INDIA "Ladies and gentlemen, it affords me very great pleasure to present to you Sir Modava Rao, who has kindly consented to give you a lesson on the geography of India," said Captain Ringgold when the company were seated in Conference Hall.
Windham." "Certainly not, my Lord; and not a trunk shall be opened.
It has a population of more than twenty-five million; and, General Noury, it has more Mohammedans than the whole of Morocco.
They work quickly; for a minute is the usual time they remain in the water, though some can stand it twenty seconds longer.
Boulong, turning his attention to one ahead of the cutter.
"They are Baboos, which is a name given to the Bengalese.
Ferrolan joined in with vigorous bass voices.
Woolridge"-- "I beg pardon, but he is the father of the beautiful young lady who was seated at the table next to Mr.
Boulong gave the command to "Give way!" and again the cutter went ahead.
Tramways, which is the English name for horse-cars, extend to this locality, as well as to most other important parts of the city; and there is a station on the steam railroad near it, though most of the wealthy residents ride back and forth in their own carriages.
He was frequently interrupted by hearty applause, and his speech was as eloquent as it was sensible; and it was worthy a Senator in Congress.
* * * * * CONTENTS PAGE CHAPTER I.
"People coming from England or America generally arrive at Calcutta or Bombay, the larger portion at the former.
Their black hair was parted in the middle, and combed back behind the ears, after the fashion of many years ago in the United States.
But our friend Professor Giroud has something to say, and I subside to make room for him.
Nothing could be simpler, nothing grander.
Winter is the pleasantest season of the year; but autumn, unlike England, is hot, moist, and unhealthy.
She was in the middle of the river, off Fort William.
It had a military prison, which has since been called the 'Black Hole.' The nawab caused one hundred and forty-six prisoners, all he had taken, to be shut up in a room only eighteen feet square, with only two small windows, both of them obstructed by a veranda.
His wife deserts him, his children refuse to acknowledge him as their father, and his property is absorbed by his society or caste.
Bishop Heber visited it and wrote this of it:-- "This spotless sanctuary, showing such a pure spirit of adoration, made me, a Christian, feel humbled, when I considered that no architect of our religion had ever been able to produce anything equal to this temple of Allah." Following the Jumna, the carriages reached the Taj, the wonder and glory of all India.
"It is quite English, I dare say," laughed the speaker, while Mrs.
There were still eight others in the water, and all of them were to the north of the boats.
Gaskette wondered what he intended to do, though he was not left more than a moment in suspense.
The professor is a Roman Catholic; but we have not had the slightest friction in regard to any man's creed.
The visitors looked over the house and its surroundings, and then went to the hotel.
It is about seventy miles from Point de Galle, on the south-west coast of the island.
This temple completed the list marked out for inspection in Lucknow.
"One of these emperors was Houmayoun, who recovered the throne after a long banishment.
With this warning, the "Big Four" separated, and struck into the jungle.
His mausoleum, to which we will go next, is one of the noblest monuments on this plain;" and the carriages proceeded to it.
"The Hindus are a cleanly people, as required by their religion," replied Captain O'Flaherty in the hearing of all the party.
They stood upon the promenade, and strained their eyes to the utmost; but it required a nautical eye to make land out of the dim haze in the distance, for that was all there was of it.
The vessel was bought; and as she had not yet been named, Louis called her the Guardian-Mother, in love and reverence for her who had watched over him from his birth.
"Do you want to carry those snakes back to the palace?" asked Khayrat.
The three gentlemen in the cabin were as sociable as could be desired; and though it was Sunday morning, the scene at the tables had been very animated.
"Let us go up to Conference Hall, where there is a table," said the third officer, as he produced a book he had brought up from his state-room.
There is always a British representative at his court, who advises him in some matters of government, and his realm is called a protected state.
His present enemy saw him at the same instant; but he did not halt, or show any signs of fear.
They were conveyed to the railway station by them, and there found his lordship with a plan of a number of carriages--they are not cars there.
I proposed to see Bombay, and perhaps run down to Poona.
The tourists visited other mosques and tombs, which reminded them of the tombs of the Mamelukes.
Some experts who have examined the building thoroughly are unable to find any architectural faults, though perhaps others would be more successful.
THE PARTING FESTIVITIES ON THE HOOGLY 351 CHAPTER XXXVII.
"They are two-horse carriages; and, if you please, we will ride to the hotel in them," laughed the distinguished guide.
Far into the night this debauchery continues, and I trust the authorities will soon clean it out." The carriages continued on their way to Malabar Hill, and made a thorough survey of the locality.
"There's one of them now!" exclaimed Captain O'Flaherty, pointing to one wreathed around a bush.
The top of the bridge was on a level with the flat roof, and the two side-arches started from the ground.
"When an outcast enters another caste, he is well and heartily received as a convert.
"I have to pay my waiter at home six pounds a month." "Now, what is there to be seen in Calcutta?" asked the commander after breakfast.
[Illustration: "He saw a huge cobra directly in front of him."--Page 242.] He looked in the direction of the noises, and saw two more cobras lifting their vicious heads into the air.
"The wife of one of these men was devoured by a crocodile a year ago, and the daughter of the other, a child of six, had been borne off by a tiger," he explained, as they proceeded after the two men.
The ladies were interested, and the carriages stopped to enable them to see the operation.
As soon as the headway was nearly killed, the quarter-boat went into the water, with an officer in uniform in the stern-sheets.
"I saw several of them yesterday, and I meant to ask what it was." "That is the _arghilah_, generally called the adjutant," replied Sir Modava.
It was a strange sight to them, the variety of races, the strange costumes, and the absence of any considerable portion of costume at all.
So say we all of us!" To the astonishment, and perhaps to the disgust, of the two Methodist ladies, Dr.
"'And the vicinity of the bay of Kuriyan Muriyan, where the winds and weather are more boisterous and variable than on any other part of the coast,'" continued Scott.
The narrow streets, through which the party made their way with difficulty were very clean.
That is all I need say at present." The next morning after breakfast the carriages bespoken were at the door.
Hawkes declared that she was in no danger whatever.
Belgrave, as one of them relieved her of the bag she carried.
You will be obliged to forego the luxury of carriages in making your tours through the place, for the streets are so narrow and crowded that it is impossible to get along with a vehicle.
Lord Tremlyn was particularly interested in the educational feature of the Guardian-Mother, as Captain Ringgold explained his pet scheme in the library, or study, abaft the state-cabin, as it was called on the plan of the vessel prepared by the gentleman for whom she had been built.
The tourists wandered through the pavilion, the emperor's rooms in the palace, the bath, and numerous apartments.
The Blanche was sailing in company of the Guardian-Mother for Bombay when the wreck with several men on it was discovered.
If you had been here this morning you would have seen them coming out of the water just as the men are ready to go in, and you would have observed them in their white garments, dripping like drowned rats.
He was arrested on his return, and compelled to serve out the remainder of his term of service.
Probably they are the wife and daughter of a shopkeeper.
"I should like to have some of our people take a lesson from this institution," said Mrs.
"Not the Garden of Eden?" suggested Mrs.
The party were driven to the tower of Koutub, a Mussulman conqueror, who commemorated his victory by building this triumphal column, which is two hundred and twenty-seven feet high.
Two officers were appointed to attend them, and both of them spoke English very well.
"They all call him a king, and I suppose he is one.
Sir Modava explained what the troops were as they passed.
"Probably I never saw it; but read it, Mr.
The ladies were in doubt as to whether or not they cared to see such an exhibition; but the three gentlemen who were accustomed to them declared that there was no danger.
The journey was made in an afternoon, and was through a densely populated territory, so that the trip was very enjoyable.
Belgrave was tugging at the sleeve of her friend in order to suppress her.
One of them might hit me when I was not looking, for they don't play fair; but I shall be on the watch for them, and I'll take my chance." "But, Sir Modava, do you really dare to go out where there are cobras?" asked Mrs.
There are subdivisions into sects among them, and it would be quite impossible to follow them through the mazes of belief to which they adhere.
They do not confine themselves to the duty presented to them in "Conference Hall;" but they are profuse, and even extravagant, in their hospitality, becoming the hosts of the entire party, and treating them like princes in the principal cities of India, in all of which they are quite at home.
"Nana Sahib, the native leader of the mutiny, was the adopted son of the former peshwa, or ruler, of the Mahrattas, as certain states in the west and middle of India are called.
But I shall not go into the details of those migratory periods, but speak only of the city as we find it.
A figure with an enormous wig, his half-naked body daubed all over with yellow paint, was seated before it, abstracted in the deepest meditation.
Though it was winter, the ship was in 18° north latitude, and the weather was as mild and pleasant as in midsummer.
"The Parsee does not think so; and perhaps he has the same view you have of our manner of disposing of the dead.
"That is the Guicowar," said the Hindu guide.
Gaskette had remained aft, and when the ship had stopped her screw and nearly lost her headway, the captain shouted to him through his speaking-trumpet, which the roar of the waves and the escaping steam rendered necessary, to "Lower away!" "Lower away when you are ready, Mr.
"Where is Lord Tremlyn?" he asked, as he surveyed the surrounding waters.
He fought in the United States in 1814, and in many other parts of the world.
Cotton factories have been established, with native labor, which promise great results to the industry of the country.
This was but a little more than two square feet on the floor for each person, so that they could not stand up without crowding each other.
Then the performers threw themselves on the basket, closed the lid, and began to punch it in every direction with long and wicked-looking knives.
Dinky knew what he was about all the time; and though his foe struck at him several times, he dodged him and put in several bites.
"I think you had better make no apology for your treatment of your subject.
He is a nice-looking young man, painted blue, and dressed like a king.
The island of Elephanta was about five miles distant, and in half an hour the party landed.
It was a very pleasant day after the storm, and the ship had again struck into the north-east monsoon.
At her ordinary speed, the Guardian-Mother would arrive at Colombo at one o'clock the next day.
He was a gigantic creature, bearing on his back a howdah of solid gold.
"Did ye's mate ony cobrys, Musther Scott?" asked Felix.
The gratitude of the two titled members of the trio, and their earnest appreciation of the educational object of the long voyage, induce them to make themselves very useful on board.
Among the trees, as the carriages proceeded along the Queen's Road, they found a great number of Hindu huts, half hidden in the dense foliage.
The storm was severe, but not as savage as it might have been, or as the steamer had encountered on the Atlantic when she saved the sailing-yacht Blanche from foundering.
As to the expense, I hope and beg that not another word will be said about it.
From a sailing-yacht sunk in a squall in the harbor of New York, the crew of the steamer had saved two gentlemen.
To the natives it is a sacred river, and the land through which it flows is holy ground.
Though the guests said but little about it, most of them were disgusted with these spectacles, and considered them cruel and brutal.
From this point, he dwelt upon his esteem for the commander of the Guardian-Mother, who had rendered a service to India in saving them from certain death, which they, better than he, could understand and appreciate.
When it stopped to rest, the Italian band played, and thus the music was kept up for three hours, when the steamers were at Diamond Harbor.
It is an English custom to follow a toast to a distinguished personage with this refrain, as expressive of the sentiments of the company; and though it was not adapted to Sunday use, it was sincere and heartfelt on the part of all who sang it.
Sir Modava explained what needed explanation.
Of its sanctity, that it washes away sin, and that death in its waters or on its shores is the passport to eternal bliss, you have learned.
At the Cotton-Green they got out; for the place was now alive with Parsees and other merchants, with plenty of coolies, some of whom were moving bales, and others sorting cotton.
Half a mile below her they saw the Blanche.
From this point, through the trees, may be seen a forest of minarets, cupolas, towers, and inferior domes.
They are not tubed or hollow; but he has a sort of groove on the outside of the tooth, down which the deadly poison flows.
His mother would give ten times that sum, and all the rest of the young man's fortune.
She was a good-looking woman of thirty-six, and one of the "salt of the earth," though her education, except on Scripture subjects, had been greatly neglected.
The route was along the Boomtee River at first, which, some one has said, is the crookedest stream in the world, and the scenery was worth looking at.
It is abundantly watered by the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, the Jumna, the Indus, the Godavari, and other great streams.
It came at the worst season of the year; and if it had not been speedily suppressed, it would have spread over the whole country.
"I never went to a theatre in my life!" protested Mrs.
"Perhaps I do not violate any confidence in saying that his lordship and his Hindu friend had a conversation just before dinner to-day, in which they were discussing in what manner they could best assist you in seeing India.
"Quite correct, Miss Woolridge," added Scott approvingly.
It has a population of almost 127,000, which has been increased at the expense of Galle, as we generally call it to economize our breath.
Her pride is aroused; she rushes off, and returns with her little son.
"What a poetical sea-monster you are, Mr.
Of course you know all about it, for the slender stem is carried to all Europe and America.
The terrors of the War of the Rebellion had driven the old man to convert his property into gold, which he had concealed so effectually that no one could find it.
Thirteen men and ten divers are generally the crew of each boat, five of the latter going down into the water while the other five rest.
It is located on a lofty terrace; and its long line of walls, crowned with Arabic domes, is very imposing.
It looks like about three-fourths of a globe, capped with a slender spire.
"I read it on his monument at Genoa last summer." "Quite right, my young friend; and that is where the capital of Ceylon obtained its name, which the Portuguese gave it, in honor of the great discoverer, only twenty-five years after the great event of his life.
LORD TREMLYN DISCOURSES MORE ABOUT INDIA 118 CHAPTER XIV.
Half a dozen of them had been retained, but when the omnibuses set them down at the hotel a hundred more could have been readily procured.
This gentleman is Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy He died in 1859." "Parsees do not eat anything cooked by a person of another religion, and reject beef and pork, especially hams.
"I have another to add to it, for the destruction of the Fatimé, his Highness the Pacha Ali-Noury's steam-yacht, which he authorizes me to collect." "Does he, indeed?" replied the captain, laughing; for, having the "weather gauge" of the rascal, he was disposed to treat the matter very lightly.
I speak not for myself alone, but for all the ship's company of the Travancore, now gone to the bottom," replied Lord Tremlyn, again grasping the hand of the commander.
By half-past six the party were on The Strand, as the road in the esplanade bordering the river is called.
THE UNEXAMPLED LIBERALITY OF THE HOSTS 217 CHAPTER XXIV.
Promptly at the hour set the Guardian-Mother got under way, and the Cherub's band played its liveliest airs.
CHAPTER XX A JUVENILE WEDDING AND HINDU THEATRICALS The note to Lord Tremlyn enclosed sixteen cards printed in gold letters, one for each member of the company, and they were passed around to them.
"For the present, will you excuse me until the ship comes to anchor?" "Certainly, Captain." "Here is the custom-house boat, and I suppose I must attend to that." "Leave that to me, if you please." In another half-hour the Guardian-Mother was at anchor off the Apollo Bunder, the wharf, or landing-place.
"What time is breakfast?" "Bring sahib coffee at six in the morning; breakfast at nine; tiffin at one." "What's that last one, Moro?" "We had tiffin at Suez, and it means luncheon," interposed Morris.
He gave himself up to study, and at last came to believe that he had reached the perfection of wisdom.
He waited only long enough to satisfy himself that he had not mistaken the roar of the sea for calls for help, and then went forward to the pilot-house, where he announced that he had heard the shots and the cries.
A portion of the day was passed in writing letters to their friends at home, and quite a bundle of them was collected for the post by Louis.
"There is such a thing as a snake-stone, which is applied to the wound, and is said to absorb the blood, and with it the poison; but medical men of character regard it as not entitled to the credit claimed for it.
In the phrase of his religion he 'turned the wheel of the law.' One of his titles is _Chakravartin_, which means 'the turner of a wheel.' The doctrines of the Buddha are written out on a wheel, which is set in motion with a crank, though it is sometimes operated by horse-power; and such machines are sometimes seen in front of religious houses in Thibet, and the monks have portable ones." "I thought the religion of Thibet was the worship of the Grand Lama," suggested Louis.
It is an unhealthy region, the ground is so low; and yonder you see a stately hospital, built by the Guicowar, as the maharajah is called." The tourists had all they could do to see the strange things that were pointed out to them, and while thus employed the train stopped at the station.
The coolie boatmen who were seeking a job to put the passengers on shore were disappointed.
"Haven't you heard of him?" "Never did." "The creature is a sort of ichneumon, with a long body, extending back of his hind legs, which gradually decreases in size till it becomes his tail.
It has a fine dome, around which cluster several smaller structures, such as we should call cupolas in America or England.
The child stepped into the basket, which did not seem to be big enough to hold him, even when reduced to his smallest dimensions.
The leaves average five inches long, and taste more like cloves than cinnamon.
Knott grasped him by his upper garment, and drew his head out of the water.
"It is a place of considerable importance, though there are not so many temples, mosques, tombs, and other fine structures, as in many other cities of India; and I wondered that the commander had placed it in his list of places to be visited.
From the river a full view was obtained of the multitude of columns, belfries, and cupolas, as well as of the Government House, the Town Hall, and the line of magnificent houses beyond the esplanade.
Ah, here is Miss Blanche." She was followed by her servant, who was decidedly a nuisance to her, though he retreated from her room as soon as he had put things in order, and remained within call outside the door.
From the museum the party walked to the imperial palace of Akbar, still in an excellent state of preservation.
Both of them were of the Indian style of architecture, very elaborate in ornamentation.
"It is one which answers the purpose of a hotel.
The chief steward had "spread himself" on the breakfast, and the meal was far more elaborate than usual; and the wrecked trio proved that they had excellent appetites.
From this prime meridian longitude is calculated, which means that any given locality is so many degrees east or west of it.
"There were many causes that produced independent rebellions, such as the greased cartridges served out to the Sepoys, though this was only insignificant.
The ship sped on her course, though something to instruct and amuse was going on all the time.
In 1811 it had a population of two hundred and fifty thousand; but five and thirty years later it had less than one-third of that; but has gained somewhat up to the present time.
"But you have to pay for your own attendance; and your servant's pay is from eight to ten rupees a month, or about a pound." "Cheap enough!" exclaimed the surgeon.
In modern caste the Brahmin is the minister of religion; he alone mediates between God and man, makes sacrifices, and teaches the sacred Veda.
With your permission, gentlemen, I desire to introduce you to each of my passengers, promising to indicate those whose garments you wear," continued the commander.
I am entirely devoted to those to whom we owe our lives, and I am in their service as long as they will stay in India.
At fifteen Miss Blanche was remarkably beautiful, and Louis could not help recognizing the fact.
Mazagan looked at him, and seemed to be unable to believe the evidence of his own eyes.
The steamer continued to roll violently when Louis assisted Miss Blanche down the stairs to the main cabin.
Belgrave's muscle is as hard as a flint." "Very well.
Ponies, donkeys, and mules are in use for various purposes.
"For every degree of longitude sailed there is four minutes' difference of clock-time," Scott proceeded.
"I have called, Captain, to remind you that our account has not yet been settled," said the villanous Moor.
"In the towns on the sea the fish are excellent, and an important industry is curing and smoking them for the markets.
Belgrave, putting her fingers into her ears.
"The monsoons here begin in July, and during their time the bore is the most mischievous.
"There are many rivers in Ceylon, rising in the high land, and flowing into the sea; but none of them are as long as the Mississippi.
They were all seated on the huge beasts, and the procession started, the Italian band following the native, and playing when they ceased to do so.
No matter how cold the water is, they dive in and swim like fishes.
At the present time the festival is attended by Baboos of the best class; but it amounts simply to an athletic exhibition with music.
I shall not follow out its history, for you will hear enough of that as you visit the various localities." "I used to think Calicut and Calcutta were the same city," said Louis.
The Vedas are the four oldest sacred books of the Hindus, otherwise the Hindu Scriptures.
He listened with all his ears, and then distinguished very faintly shouts from human voices.
It was not till the twenty-second of September that Havelock and Outram arrived, and captured the Alum-Bagh, which we shall visit this morning.
"'Do you know vot vas der reason vy ve calls our boy Hans?'" "Well, what was the reason, Captain?" inquired the lady seriously.
In the mountain streams the fishing is very good; but in the warm waters of the streams on the plains, as in Egypt, the fish are soft, and neither palatable nor healthy.
A REVIEW OF THE PAST FOURTEEN MONTHS.
The huge bungalows of the rich merchants and higher government officials are here.
It was a bright moonlight night when the train passed out of the capital of the Punjab.
He declared that he was following the blessed example of St.
None of the party had yet gone to the public room except Sir Modava, though Lord Tremlyn soon joined him.
It required more than an hour for the procession to pass the point of observation; and when the last of it had disappeared in the distance all the Americans declared that they had never seen anything, even in Europe, which could be compared with it in variety and magnificence.
"I have always called it Hi-mal'-a-ya, the _a_ after the accented syllable being very slightly sounded; this is the pronunciation of all the Indian officials," replied the speaker, with his pleasant smile.
The screw of the ship ceased to revolve; and then, to save time, the commander of the Guardian-Mother ordered the quartermaster to ring to back her, and the Blanche followed her example.
I wanted to reduce the number of the varmints a little." "But why did Khayrat tell me I ought not to have shot a monkey?" asked Morris.
As usual, the party were invited to remove their shoes, though the sight hardly paid for the trouble.
The station at Cawnpore excited their attention, for it is five hundred and sixty feet long.
THE TITLED GENTLEMEN OF THE TRAVANCORE 40 CHAPTER VI.
"How do you spell Hindustan, Sir Modava?" inquired Mrs.
The two cutters appeared to be their only possible salvation, and they were still at a considerable distance from the scene of peril.
They wear their own costumes; but they have done more than any others for the prosperity of the place," said Lord Tremlyn.
The nobles in attendance were sufficiently civilized to indulge in betting, and wagers had been made on the various fights in progress.
I will not meddle with this subject, as it is assigned to another, and I have no desire to steal his thunder-box.
Scott is willing." "I am very willing, for Mr.
A steam-launch came off for the passengers; for the hosts had written to every place they were to visit, and carriages were in readiness for them when they landed.
Speeches were made by all the principal persons of the party of Americans, and by the Moroccan magnate, expressive of the very great enjoyment of the visit, and in praise of the liberality of the kingly host's hospitality.
But the plan was soon abandoned," interposed the captain.
It is awful-smelling stuff; and I wonder if they don't make it out of this smoke, for it hits my nose in just the same way," said Mrs.
A great deal of Christian teaching has been done in Ceylon, though I am not able just now to give you statistically the results of missionary work; but it has included the establishment of schools, female seminaries, and even collegiate institutions, carried on by the missionaries, outside of the government system of education.
At first view it looks like a small palace set on the top of a large one.
The second cutter was on the port quarter of the vessel, and this movement placed the boat under the lee.
But they are very richly ornamented; for the idol has an income of over £30,000 from lands and religious houses.
A company of cavalry was drawn up near the elephants, at the head of which, surrounded by a numerous staff of officers, sat on a prancing horse, caparisoned with exceeding richness, a person who could be no other than the maharajah.
"How did you enjoy the play, madam?" inquired Sir Modava.
I suppose I disturbed them, and they hoisted the flags to let me know they were in town.
The young magnate was eighteen years old, and was walking on the promenade deck of the steamer with a beautiful young lady of sixteen when he asked for information in regard to the run, or the distance made by the ship during the last sea-day.
Boulong?" he inquired, still looking through the glass.
If he meant to astonish us, he has hit the nail on the head." "But where are Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava?" asked Miss Blanche.
The first trap they saw was a broad trench, the bottom and sides armed with stakes of the hardest wood, sharpened to a wicked point.
Woolridge as they left the place.
"Have you the blue book that comes with this chart, Captain Ringgold?" asked Scott, rather timidly, as though he had something on his mind which he did not care to present too abruptly; for the commander was about the biggest man on earth to him.
Claw-hammer coats are not imperative, gentlemen," said the captain.
Her relatives shaved off her hair, dressed her in the coarsest clothing, and compelled her to do the severest drudgery of the household.
"Goa is still a Portuguese possession, nearly three hundred miles down the coast; and a year before they captured it they took possession of this island, in 1509.
From the sea the metropolis of India is reached by the Hoogly River, the most western outlet of the Ganges," his lordship began.
This portion was practicable for carriages, and half a dozen _culèches_ were drummed together after some delay; and the ladies were glad to be seated again, for they had had a long and tiresome walk through the narrow and crowded streets.
"But here we are at the Lucknow station." As usual, by the kindness of Lord Tremlyn, everything had been provided for the arrival of the company of tourists.
They reached the thickly settled town where each house was a fortress, and with valor equal to anything on record, fought their way to the Residency, where they were rapturously received by the beleaguered garrison.
"I can hardly better that." He made some suggestions; but this route was substantially adopted.
It is located on a peninsula, with the sea on three sides of it, with a lake and moat on the land side.
CHAPTER XVI A MULTITUDE OF NATIVE SERVANTS The barge was ready as soon as it was needed, and lay at the platform of the gangway, with the crew in their white uniforms, quite as smart as man-of-war's-men.
He wore trousers, with white socks and slippers.
The Portuguese called them _casta_ in their own language, from which the present name comes.
When he said what he had to say, he approached the chairman with a large and handsome frame in his hand, containing a testimonial from the passengers, attested by the autographs of all, which he presented to Lord Tremlyn, with the best wishes of all the signers, who had profited so extensively from their kindness, for the health, happiness, and length of days of the trio.
So far it was no new thing; but one of the spectators was asked to say stop at any time he pleased.
"I have heard of this vessel before, and they say here that the young rajah is worth millions of pounds," said he, when he had laid the course of the steamer.
Felix claimed the right to fire first, and he killed him with one ball.
Knott was at the gangway, the pirate was turned over to him, and hustled down the steps into his boat.
The ladies were assisted to their places, and the "Big Four" went into the fore-sheets.
He talked French with Louis, Italian with Sir Modava, and Spanish with Lord Tremlyn; for it was understood that he spoke at least half a dozen languages besides his own, and the guests found he was equally fluent in all they knew.
Like Delhi, it is on the Jumna, which is here crossed by a floating bridge.
It is like Constantinople, very beautiful to look at from the Bosporus, or the Golden Horn; but its dirty, narrow streets disgust you.
"I have also the pleasure to inform you that Lord Tremlyn and Dr.
Blossom was usually her shadow; and of course Captain Ringgold, when not employed in his duties in the navigation of the steamer, gravitated, not materially but sentimentally, to this group; for wherever Mrs.
Belgrave was, the commander was not far off.
In that very month of November when Sir Colin came to the rescue, Havelock was taken with dysentery, died on the twenty-second, and was buried in the Alum-Bagh, the fort containing a palace and a fortress, which he had carried in his last battle.
The density of India, therefore, is quite respectable by comparison.
The men, who were armed with whips, fireworks, red cloths, and other instruments of torment, assailed him.
He is a Mohammedan, and he sticks to his religion; but even that is capable of making a better man of him than he was before." "I was much pleased with Mrs.
"The Moguls use them when they want to go in state, and sometimes when they go hunting tigers; and then the big beast gets most of the hard scratches." "But the elephant can take care of himself when the mahout allows him to do so," argued Scott.
"It is the same thing, passed through the mill.
"I am under a burden of obligation to you which I shall never be able to repay; and I hope I shall be able to render you some slight service in assisting you to see India, for I learn that you are bound to Bombay." "I thank you, Sir Modava; and we shall gratefully accept any favors you may extend to us." "Let me add, my Lord, that Mr.
"Then you are a true son of the ocean, Captain Ringgold, and I shall remember you as long as I live in my prayers!" "So shall we all!" exclaimed Sir Modava, taking the hand of the commander.
Blossom is one of the "salt of the earth," a very good woman, very religious, and her studies have been confined to the Bible and her denominational newspapers.
"Why do you call it so?" "That reminds me of the German," interposed Captain Ringgold, laughing heartily.
"You will clear away the second cutter, Mr.
His shirt appeared to be outside of his trousers, like the Russians, with a sort of vest over it.
The depth is shallow near the land, which causes the water to break.
The crowd opened for the sahibs and the ladies, treating them with the utmost deference, as though they were superior beings; and they obtained a position where they could see the entire performance.
"Festival of Serpents," said the driver through the window.
"As Havelock and his puny force approached Cawnpore, this miscreant incited the cold-blooded massacre of all the women and children the rebels had captured on the day before the place was taken.
They were stirring up the fires with long iron pokers, and throwing vessels of oil upon them.
We need not follow them or repeat their explanations; but they finally reached the promenade deck, where all the officers were presented to the guests of the steamer.
On the west are Beloochistan and Afghanistan, and on the east Siam and China, though the boundaries were somewhat disturbed last summer in the former." "We used to pronounce the name of your great northern range of mountains Hi-ma-lay'-a; you do not call it so, Sir Modava," said the commander.
Belgrave, while Lord Tremlyn rendered a similar service to the Woolridges and Louis, and Dr.
All the reliefs on the walls relate to the worship of this divinity, while there is not a known temple to Brahma.
He founded schools and encouraged literature.
They were all shot; but the repeated reports of the rifles had probably scared off others, and no more beasts of any kind came.
Gautama, of whom a great many pretty stories are told, is sometimes regarded as the founder; though some who have studied the history of the sect, or order, do not believe that the Buddha was a real person, but an allegorical figure.
As a student he learns the Veda; then he gets married, becomes a householder, and must every day perform the appointed sacrifice.
It was in ruins, for it was so left as a memorial of the events of the past.
"What caste or class do they belong to?" "I should say they were in the Vaisya caste, agriculture and trade.
"Would I give a hundred thousand dollars for saving Sir Louis's life?
There was an abundance of what we call bay-windows, and ornamented balconies.
I advise you not to mention expense to either of my associates.
They were looked over and admired by the party.
They all followed the example of the viscount, and addressed him as "Sahib Dinshaw," the title being equivalent to "Lord," or "Master," applied by the natives to their employers, and to the English generally.
Ferrolan to the professional gentlemen of the company.
We think he produced a plan that was worth the money he received; though we don't think he surpassed the Taj, or some other buildings that might be mentioned." This immense structure is now a vast arsenal.
Sage, the chief steward of the ship; and he was asked to supply a full suit, including undergarments, shirt, socks, collar, and cravat.
But there was no suitable hotel in the place.
Scott reported cries from that direction not ten minutes ago, and the lookout aloft hailed the deck a minute or two later," replied the first officer.
It was a pull of but a few minutes, and the barge shot into the basin, and came to a convenient landing-place.
The thermometer stood at 70°, and the ladies declared that the temperature was just right.
The men seemed to be at least first cousins to the serpents the baskets contained, for their expression was subtle enough to stamp them as belonging to the same family.
"The information in the book is quite correct.
On the forenoon of the second day out the passengers were called together in Conference Hall, and they were glad to assemble there again.
The English system in the appointment of its officials prevails, and all candidates are regularly examined.
But no one had any objection, not even Mrs.
It is now almost generally absorbed in the name of India, and the application of the term to the whole of the peninsula is entirely erroneous; and English authorities usually pronounce it so.
"The task befaw me is to put a gallon of fluid into a pint pot.
Vessels drawing twenty-six feet of water come up to the city; though the stream, like the Mississippi, is liable to be silted up." "I see that some of you look at me as though I had used a strange word.
This mosque is a fine one, mounted on a marble esplanade or platform, like most buildings of this description.
We compare the time thus obtained with that indicated by the chronometer, and find a difference of four hours." "I see it all!" exclaimed the fair maiden, as triumphantly as though she had herself reasoned out the problem.
The country near the Arabian Sea still receives the designation of the Deccan, from the Kistna River to the Gulf of Cambay on the north.
At the request of the commander, the carriages went down to the fort, where the passengers all alighted, and gathered together on the shore.
"These buildings were mostly erected no farther back than 1850, by Wajid Ali Shah, the King of Oude, who was deposed by the British government in 1856.
"Kindly pull up to her, and let me be sure of it." "That is easier said than done, sir.
He has the reputation of being the great serpent-killer of India, and many wonderful stories are told of him.
"The Maharajah of Gwalior is an old friend of Sir Modava, and I am well acquainted with him.
A bountiful collation was then served in another apartment, at which the Maharajah presided.
"There is next to nothing to be seen at Surat, and we shall go from there immediately to Baroda, on our way to Lahore," interposed Lord Tremlyn.
Lord Tremlyn declared that he seldom drank it at all, and Dr.
"I thought we had disposed of that question once for all at Bombay.
"We used to write it Hindoostan when I went to school." "I think the orthography of the word is a matter of fashion, for the letter _u_ in most European and Asiatic languages is pronounced like the English _oo_; but it is now almost universally spelled with a _u_.
The visitors next found themselves at Girgaum, which is a forest of cocoanut-trees extending from the Bazaars to Chowpatti, at the head of the Back Bay.
The evidences of British thrift were to be seen in many portions of the place.
Before you get to Calcutta you will find them housed in temples.
Then she reproaches him for forsaking her, in a soft and musical voice, her eyes raining tears all the time.
Some of them were decidedly pretty, though their style of beauty was not entirely to the taste of the Americans.
The Buddha claims to have been born five hundred and fifty times,--a hermit, a slave, a king, a monkey, an elephant, a fish, a frog, a tree, etc.
Just below Allahabad it takes in the Jumna, itself a mighty stream.
Going to the citadel, they entered by a highly ornamental gateway, which opened to the visitors the view of the vast pile of buildings, in the middle of which is the Imambara.
I should have said multiply by 60," added the young lady.
FIRST AND SECOND CUTTERS TO THE RESCUE.
His sacred footstep on Adam's Peak, 7,420 feet high, the second highest elevation in the island, is still adored by the people.
"This is a banyan-tree," said Sir Modava.
"Go 'way with you, Milesian, and don't tell any fish stories!" replied Scott, continuing to blackguard him while the servants were putting the deer on the top of the wagon.
I have nothing more to say at present." "I have an announcement to make," said Captain Ringgold.
"It would not be prudent in a cyclone, and I trust you will have no occasion to try the experiment," added Sir Modava.
After the elephant had been removed, there was no little excitement among the assemblage in the veranda, and the betting seemed to be livelier than ever.
The Methodists were as much pleased with it as though it had been delivered by one of their own fold.
They had black eyes, and they looked the visitors full in the face, and with entire self-possession.
He attained the grade of corporal; but this elevated rank did not satisfy him, and he left for the interior.
Some of the biggest operators sold out their stock, and a panic ensued.
It required but a few strokes to give the necessary headway to the boat; and Knott was again ordered to stand by to haul him in.
The man inside is the cook of a Parsee merchant I happen to know, and probably he is going to market to buy supplies for the family.
The private property of the directors was confiscated.
He held on like an excited bulldog, in spite of the erratic vaulting of the boat and the struggles of him whom the deep sea seemed to have chosen as its victim.
The party seated themselves in the vehicles, which were English, and quite commodious, according to their own fancies; and it need only be said that the commander was in the one with Mrs.
The party separated, and its members gave themselves up to an examination of the surroundings.
His foster-father had been deprived of his dominion, and lived on a pension paid by the British.
It was a terrible summer that the beleaguered people and their brave handful of soldiers passed; and Tennyson has commemorated Lucknow in his immortal verse.
Woolridge invited General Noury to accompany them.
This gives the unprofessional people an interest in the exercises they would not otherwise have.
It is possible that the bone absorbs the blood; but that is not a settled fact, and I leave it to Dr.
"You don't see such a variety of races here as you did in Bombay," said Lord Tremlyn as he was pointing out the sights to be seen.
"Of course you know how the longitude of the ship is obtained, Miss Woolridge?" the young officer began.
The live boys were more pleased with this occupation than in looking at temples and mosques.
No one but the priests are allowed to enter it; and the relatives leave the body at the door, from which they take it into the building.
Now, if you please, we will drive to the memorials of this dreadful butchery." A memorial church now indicates the site of General Wheeler's intrenchments, which the party visited first.
Surrounding the great beast that had the honor to bear the flag of the Mahratta States were numerous horsemen, all clothed in the richest Oriental costumes, armed with spears and curved sabres, with shining shields, and steel gauntlets on their hands.
All the wars of India have been fought by the British nation.
They had been treated with the utmost kindness and consideration, and their hosts could not do enough for them.
McGavonty," replied the speaker blankly.
"She was headed about west by south; and very likely it was the one which ran into the Travancore, for no other was reported." "She was a vessel of about four hundred tons," added the viscount.
The Hindu had not entirely lost his senses; and when he was disburdened of the load of salt water he had swallowed, he looked about him, though still in a somewhat dazed condition.
It is a sort of acropolis, for it contains palaces, mosques, halls of justice, and other buildings." The carriages stopped at the principal gate, opposite to which is the mosque of Jummah Musjid, or the Cathedral Mosque.
"Ras Sajer," said the captain, placing the point of his pencil on the cape whose name he read.
"I did at Cawnpore, but not here." "Suppose you were coming up the river in a steamer from Calcutta, which would be the left bank?" asked Louis.
Accommodations had been bespoken by Lord Tremlyn, and early in the afternoon the party were quartered in the Elphinstone.
"The word Hindu is generally used in a very broad sense to cover all the native population of Hindustan or India; but it is really applicable to a religion, and belongs only to those of the Hindu, or the faith of the Brahmins; but, like most others, it consists of a great number of sects.
Both Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava invited any or all of the party who might be in India or in England to visit them; and the commander and Mrs.
But it would take too much time, and Captain Ringgold objected; for he had already marked Allahabad out of the route.
The shipmaster fixed upon this craft as the one for the young millionaire, declaring that she would give the owner an education such as could not be obtained at any college; and that she could be sold for nearly all she cost when she was no longer needed.
Doubtless there is much more of it available; but a considerable of it consists of steep mountain-sides, of deserts, and the beds and overflow of the rivers.
"Only named for it; but it is a very beautiful garden in English style, though the trees and plants are, of course, different.
Woolridge, who was not much interested in the South Sea Scheme, though her husband and Louis listened to the explanation very attentively.
The noble host apparently wished to show the Americans what the Mussulmans of India could do, and he crowned his magnificent hospitality by inviting the entire company to install themselves in his mansion, which was large enough for a palace; but for the reasons already set forth, the invitation was gratefully declined.
The deaths from snakes and wild animals in all India averages annually twenty-two thousand.
There are several lines of steamers running between London, Southampton, and Liverpool to this port; and they were constantly arriving and departing.
But we must get nearer to the centre of the show." "Not too near," pleaded Mrs.
If you wish to land and go to the cupola you can do so." "I pray thee have me excused," interposed Uncle Moses; and Dr.
The commander had something to think of now; but he came to the conclusion that the reprobate was not aware of the presence of the Blanche or her owner.
At the conclusion of the exercises, Sir Modava begged the company to close by singing another of Bishop Heber's verses, which he repeated from memory, though it was in one of the books:-- "God that madest earth and heaven, Darkness and light; Who the day for toil hast given, For rest the night,-- May thine angel guards defend us, Slumber sweet thy mercy send us, This livelong night!" With this musical prayer on their lips, the company retired.
Boulong had directed his boat, after taking in Dr.
They were thronged with pilgrims from all parts of India, dressed in their best garments, loaded with gold and silver ornaments.
The gentleman who sent out these cards was one of the wealthiest of the Parsee community, with whom the viscount was intimately acquainted, and he strongly recommended the Americans to attend.
When the steamer had gathered sufficient headway, she was brought about as cautiously as before.
Boulong, who stood on the deck by the platform.
I thank you and the brave and noble officers and crews of your boats with all my mind and heart.
Perhaps the most lovely scenery in the whole world is to be found in this island.
In a region extending from the almost tropical island of Ceylon, nearly 2,000 miles to the snow-capped summits of the highest mountains in the world, there must necessarily be a great variety of climate.
This is the first port usually reached by vessels from Europe, though Kurrachee is nearer.
While most of the company were planking the promenade deck, it was observed that Lord Tremlyn and Dr.
No towns of any considerable importance were passed during this long stretch of 540 miles.
Mont Blanc is seen in very clear weather at the distance of a hundred miles, and it is about eight thousand feet less in height.
"Uncle Moses is not a bit like the miser that could not afford a candle at his death-bed in the night," added Louis.
"The one just ahead of us, sir." "Thank God, he is saved!" ejaculated his soaked lordship.
The British government takes a fatherly interest in the native states, and they have been loyal without exception in later years, though the history of India will show that not all of them have always been so." "Until the year 1858 the government was in the hands of the East India Company, of which you will learn more in the history of India.
Sir Modava seemed to be in a rapture, as the piece was his favorite, and came from one who was connected with his native land.
The party returned to the carriages, filled with admiration of the magnificent structure they had visited, and were driven to the palace of the emperors, now turned into the fort.
Ali-Noury was fined by the court for the assault, and, thirsting for revenge, he had followed the Guardian-Mother to Constantinople, and through the Archipelago, seeking the vengeance his evil nature demanded.
It was not an affair of greenhouses, like most of such places they had seen; for they were superfluous in the Torrid Zone, and all the plants grew in the open air.
Some of them had heard Sir Modava's explanation, and Lord Tremlyn repeated it to others.
Within the enclosure could be seen three domes, the one in the centre overtopping the other two, two lofty minarets, with small domes at the summit, supported by several columns, and an immense pointed arch leading into the great mosque.
About £6,000,000 is needed to complete the Ganges canal, which will reach all the cities through which you have passed.
"Then this voyage will create a new taste for him." "I have no doubt of it.
The mountain territory is quite thinly settled.
All this for no crime, no immorality; and he may be a noble and true man.
"There is also a government paper currency in circulation, amounting to £16,000,000 sterling.
"The king is taking us to his palace in high style.
These four classes are the origin of caste, though the divisions have been greatly changed.
He is a Rajput, which is the aristocracy of the Mahrattas.
The python began to writhe and wriggle in the bush, and Felix fired again.
The British government does not interfere unnecessarily with matters interwoven into the religion and habits of the people, though it has greatly modified the manners of the natives, and abolished some barbarous customs.
His festival is celebrated the last of April, with the greatest magnificence.
A number of rifles were brought into the veranda, with which the Guicowar and his native guests armed themselves.
Their great festival is the Churuk-Pooja, which is still celebrated, though the government has forbidden all its brutal features.
The golden howdah was presented by the Queen and Empress of India, and glitters with diamonds and other precious stones.
"Their subjects have been arranged, and I congratulate you and myself upon the satisfaction with which we shall all listen to these able exponents of the present condition of this interesting country.
Scott, what is the run for to-day?" asked Louis, renewing his first question.
"Not with us; we call each grain by its own name, and never include them under the name of corn.
Then the men formed a circle around the basket, and began a sort of chant.
"What did I ask you?" "The first time you asked me all right, and I should have answered you if I had not felt obliged to switch off and inform you and Miss Woolridge of my new appointment.
I think it is rather pleasant to know the names of places one has visited." "We could not speak the word now without an hour's practice, and I am sure not one of us will know it when we get to the other side of the Atlantic," said Mrs.
Hawkes to feel the point in their stomachs.
The Bombay to which we are going is an island eleven and a half miles long.
But these statements have been strictly investigated, and branded as the calumnies of English writers.
"So far as that was concerned, I believe I did all I could do to repair the mischief," continued the viscount.
He was a magnate of the first order, and his apartments were quite as sumptuous as those of the Guicowar of Baroda.
They were quartered for the night at private residences, and there was almost a struggle to know who should receive them.
JUGGERNAUT AND JUGGLERS 197 CHAPTER XXII.
"These men say you have killed more tigers and leopards than any party of hunters who ever came here," said Sir Modava, who carried a rifle, but had not fired it once; and Lord Tremlyn's weapon had not been discharged; for both preferred to leave the game for their friends.
They rushed together, as Scott expressed it, "head on," and the strangers seemed to feel the shock through their nerves.
Companies were formed; but being driven by the Dutch from the islands which they still hold, they began to make settlements on the coast of this peninsula.
"They air as thidck as broken heads at a Donnybrook fair." "Faix, ye's air a brither o' moine!" exclaimed Felix, grasping the hand of the captain.
Its leading doctrine is the transmigration of souls, also called by that tough word, metempsychosis, though other Hindu systems adopt this belief.
Shall we not protect ourselves from the tempest he sends?
As soon as he had completed his bloody work in the massacre, Nana Sahib besieged the feeble garrison.
That is all I shall say of the presidency, which is one of three in India.
As the animal pulls the cord he casts off the line holding the tree in its bent position.
Below these, at the extremity of the point, is Colaba, the native town, which is largely occupied by commercial buildings.
"I never counted the crocodiles in this river; but I should guess there were at least a million of them, and they steal your game as fast as you bring it down," said Sir Modava.
Boulong?" asked the captain, opening the door from his cabin to the pilothouse.
But no boat appeared to gain on the others, and the one which had started first continued to maintain her advantage till the work of rescuing the sufferers actually began.
The Hindus, especially the Buniahs and the Jains, are as prominent as in Bombay.
The river has also a bore, though not a great bore, like some people I know.
The bride will be received into this Parsee family, and the groom will remain here; but everything in the domestic circle will continue very nearly as it was before, and husband and wife will pursue their studies." "It looks very strange to us," added the lady.
"The Irish drink whiskey, the Germans beer, and the Italians are apt to have a stilletto about them.
The passengers were tired out and retired early.
On his arrival Lord Tremlyn found a letter at the office.
"Caste does not now compel a native to pursue his father's calling, except, perhaps, in the case of Brahmins.
At this stage of the drama, Captain Royal Ringgold, an early admirer of the pretty widow, became an active participant in the proceedings, and from that time he had been the director of all the steps taken to recover Louis's mother.
But Benares is my subject, and not spelling.
Sir Modava wrote this down in his memorandum book, and handed it to the Americans.
You see to the northward of us two peninsulas.
Some of the gentlemen regarded the exhibition as but little better than a prize-fight; though they all attended the occasion, for the more sensitive ones thought it would be impolite to decline the invitation, especially as the exhibition was got up especially for them.
About 12,000 of the 82,000 persons under sentence are in the convict colonies at the Andaman Islands.
They formed a quartet of educated men, and were more in touch with each other than they might otherwise have been.
The procession passed on, and shortly afterwards the booming cannon announced that the moment of the solemn benediction had come.
"What time are the other meals?" "Meals?" queried Moro.
The Americans did not meddle with forbidden topics, as they had been cautioned not to do, such as their religion and burial rites; but they could not help thinking of this elegant lady's comely form being torn to pieces by the crows and vultures in the Tower of Silence with absolute horror.
From there I thought I should send the Guardian-Mother round to Calcutta in charge of Mr.
Under the great dome in the building is a plain tombstone, beneath which are the remains of the first of the Mogul emperors.
After the manner of the _matador_ in a bull-fight, he conducted his steed, prancing in his pride, up to the arch at which the Guicowar stood, and saluted him with the grace of a knight-errant whose head was full of ladies.
They had a day-school also, and they hired a strict Hindu because he taught English so well.
The python was about ten feet long, and he must have been a meal for one of them.
It is called the Mohurrum, and takes place on the shore of the Back Bay.
[Illustration: Captain Ringgold brought down another--Page 349] The party moved on, and they had not gone ten rods before a cobra elevated his head.
The elephant is a noble beast, so intelligent that he deserves the consideration of man; and to them it seemed barbarous to set them fighting, even if the animals had belligerent instincts, though they never displayed them in their domesticated condition unless under strong provocation.
"But this is a representation in connection with the religious traditions of the Hindus," argued his lordship.
The room smelt then just the same as it does here." "You are quite right, madam," said Dr.
The rival ridicules her, and, urged on by her, Krishna hands her a cup of poison, which she drinks, and sinks to the ground.
"Especially on the coast, but of course not in the north, you will find stately palms of all varieties.
They had been supplied with clothing, and they had breakfasted in the mess-room on the best the larder afforded.
The intrepid general found the Sepoys strongly intrenched at a village; but he turned their left, and carried the works by a splendid charge of the 78th Highlanders.
The entire party are the guests of Sir Modava and myself." "I protest"--Captain Ringgold began.
Belgrave is pulling a stroke as vigorous as the rest of the crew.
Officer," added Lord Tremlyn, as he seated himself in the place pointed out to him.
The religion of Ceylon is the Buddhist, and it has a very strong hold upon the natives here as well as in Burma.
In business hours this is a busy place; and the Parsee and native merchants, robed in loose white garments, not all of them indulging in the luxury of trousers, reclining on the bales, or busy with customers, form a picturesque scene.
The first officer could not tell whether the visitor knew the Blanche was in the river, for he had not mentioned her.
For ten years he dug over the cellar bottom of the old house, and the ground in the vicinity; but the missing million entirely eluded his search, and he died as soon as he gave up all hope of finding the treasure.
The general in command of this force outranked Havelock, and the command belonged to him; but with a noble generosity he waived his claim, and served in the expedition under his victorious subordinate as a volunteer.
"At this time there were 40,000 British troops scattered over the country; several thousand men on their way from England to China were diverted to this country.
"He was the real founder of the Great Mogul dynasty.
"The little bit of a State of Rhode Island leads in the density of its population, with 318, while Massachusetts comes next with 278.
"Delhi is on the Jumna River, which you saw in the early morning.
"I don't see how that can be," interposed Miss Blanche, with one of her prettiest smiles.
Then there is a considerable portion of the people who, though they are fully recognized as Hindus, are outside of the pale of this multiform organization." "I should say that all this would make endless complications in business and society.
He was sociable with them, and they ceased to be embarrassed in his presence.
An official announces when the work is permitted, and then it lasts only from four to six weeks.
He was particularly interested in the conduct of the Blanche.
Besides the ship's company, there was no one on board of the Blanche but the general and Mrs.
The Great Eastern, one of the two largest hotels in the city, was prepared to receive them.
"I don't clean the shoes," replied the fellow, shaking his head.
The two engineers from the wreck of the Travancore had been as carefully looked after as the strangers in the main cabin.
The smallest copper coin is the _pie_, worth half a farthing, equal to a quarter of a cent of your money.
Sometimes they are free so far as the rooms are concerned; but here the guest pays two rupees a day, or fifty cents of your money, and the food is furnished at a low price." "But this is not half so much of a place as I expected to find," said Louis, after they had walked an hour, and it was time to return to the hotel.
We were floated by our life-preservers till your boats picked us up, though we were fearfully shaken and tossed about by the waves.
Mustering all his power, he made a desperate effort, and succeeded in forcing the other back enough to turn his huge body without exposing his flank to the tusks of the enemy, and then beat a hasty retreat.
They take their own time, therefore, and are very independent.
A pair of timid deer came next to drink; but they fled at the approach of what seemed to be a family of leopards, for two of them were evidently cubs.
His Highness did not "put on any style this time," and was as sociable as any common person.
Woolridge served the other in the same way; but all of them thought saurians were mean game.
Now, I wish to ask you, Doctor, if there would be any impropriety in my asking the members of your party berthed in the cabin to take part in these exercises?" "Not the slightest, Captain Ringgold." "Probably you are all better informed in regard to the affairs of the peninsula than any three other men I could find if I were to search for them here and in England," added the commander.
He had already become a favorite among the gentlemen as well as the ladies.
"It is only five o'clock here, and we have two hours before dinner-time.
Turning a somerset, he cast the stone on the floor.
In front of them, asleep on a rock, were two large snakes.
Here the ship was visited by a high officer of the army of Morocco, who was the possessor of almost unbounded wealth.
"The streets are well paved, and the houses are packed very closely together.
Groves of cocoanut, date, and other palm-trees bordered it; and far back of it was a range of mountains, the Western Ghats, a chain extending for hundreds of miles along the shore, though from twenty to fifty miles from it.
At the door the boys gave the driver two rupees, and the fellow salaamed as though he had received a guinea.
The Blanche is coming about, and she will have her starboard boat in the water in a few minutes more." As her head swung round to port she stopped her screw, and then backed for a few moments, till she had killed the most of her headway; for Captain Sharp knew better than to drop the boat into the water while the vessel was making sternway.
After an exile of twelve years, Houmayoun recovered his throne, but lost his life within a year after his return.
As you suggest, they are the two men who know more of India than any others I think of, not excepting the governor-general and his subordinates." "I came to this conclusion when I learned the nature of their mission." "Sir Modava is personally acquainted with all the native princes; and he and his lordship are regarded by them as second only to the viceroy, as he is often unofficially designated.
It was not to be compared with many mosques they had seen.
Though we are not at the festive board, I venture to propose to you the health of Captain Ringgold, as the representative of all to whom we are so gratefully indebted." "For he's a jolly good fellow!
Henderson, the surgeon of the ship, came to dine with their friends at the Victoria Hotel.
Each diver has a stone, weighing forty pounds, attached to a line long enough to reach the bottom, with a loop near the weight, into which he puts his foot.
The car-festival is the chief of twenty-four held every year, when the idol is dragged to the country house.
"But most of our lecturers are persons of fair education, and only three of them have been graduated from the university.
Leaving it, they crossed the little river that meanders through the town, and flows into the ocean at this point.
"That's very true; but we have seen all the big mosques and things, and enough is as good as a feast," suggested Scott.
We are going to the Victoria Hotel, and this _Khidmutgar_ will attend upon you at the table, and do anything you require." "I don't think I shall need him all the time," added the lady, who thought he would be a nuisance to her.
It required some time to talk about the scenes at the court of the king, though all of the party were observing the country through the windows.
The revolving chairs at the tables had to be all changed, and more added to it; and Stevens the carpenter, with his assistants from the crew, were busy for an hour making the change.
I had a revolver in my pocket, and when I saw the port light of your steamer, I fired it, and we all shouted at the top of our lungs.
He had utterly "lost his head," and was like an infant in the fury of the billows.
They rode all over the town, and found several ponds, called tanks; and the great fort is washed on one side by the river.
"Captain Ringgold, allow me to introduce my particular friend, Sir Modava Rao, a gentleman high in the favor of the Indian government, and I may add of all the native princes." "I am very happy to make your acquaintance, Sir Modava," replied the commander, taking his dusky hand.
"I suppose you Americans have been accustomed to regard India as an exceedingly hot country; and this is quite true of a considerable portion of it.
"In a small steam-yacht owned by Sir Modava, the most devoted friend of his lordship, in which he had been all around the peninsula, and up several of its rivers, we embarked for Muscat, and safely reached that country.
"To-morrow forenoon we shall return to the Guardian-Mother, and sail for Surat." The party spent the rest of the day in excursions about Bombay in three parties, each under the direction of one of the hosts.
Ferrolan." "I believe it is a fraud," replied the doctor.
He was a rather tall and slender man, and all the ladies declared that he was very handsome; and his slightly dusky hue added to, rather than took from, the beauty of his countenance.
"That is true, sir," interposed Mr.
The ship had hardly changed her course before Louis came on deck, and was soon followed by Felix McGavonty.
It contains, besides the tomb of the monarch, a mosque, a bazaar, and a model of the Taj, which make up a sufficient variety for an edifice erected for a tomb.
A history of his reign of fifty years was written by his chief minister.
All there is of the fort you can see from here." "But what are those things over the other side of the park?" "They are all tanks; and, of course, they are to hold water.
It is now used as a military storeroom, divided by brick walls, and filled with cannon and shot.
The doors were closed upon them after they had been instructed to call upon the stewards outside for anything they needed.
Slabs of black marble presented sentences to the praise of God, and in memory of Shah Jehan, who was the founder of the mosque.
The sea had suddenly begun to make itself felt a few hours before, and a flood of spray was cast over the promenade, which caused the party to evacuate it, and move farther aft.
They were always on the wing, and while the older ones rested, they always found some novelty which drew them away from the hotel.
Ferrolan, as the Hindu called him, to the person the farthest to the eastward, leaving the others to be saved by the boats nearer to them.
The commander had taken the measure of the trio, and knew where to apply for the clothing needed.
The general expressed his regret that the captain had been annoyed by the villain again, and was confident he would never see or hear from him again; and he never did.
Belgrave, gentlemen, the mother of our owner," the captain proceeded, as he took the lady by the arm.
Boulong proceeded to lift him up with his feet in the air, to free his lungs from the salt water he must have imbibed.
Commander, I will retreat from this prominent position, after doing the best I could with a meagre subject;" and the doctor bowed to the audience, while they were applauding him warmly.
Shall we permit the plague or the cholera to decimate our land because God punishes us in that way for violating the laws he has set up in our bodies?
Ferrolan," he continued as those from the first cutter crossed the deck; and he grasped the hand of the person addressed, "let us thank God first, and then the commander of this ship, that we have been preserved,--all the ship's company, I am informed." "I join you most heartily, my Lord," replied the doctor.
He was one of the bravest and most distinguished generals of modern times.
"You see that it extends a considerable distance.
It afterwards appeared that he had some clew to Peter Belgrave's missing million, and he was therefore anxious to recover the possession of the wife who had repudiated him.
The hosts of the party had provided a grand dinner for the last one.
"Papa explained it to me once, but I could not understand it," replied the fair maiden.
Louis called for three cheers for the guests, and they were given with vigor and sincerity.
"You have forgotten about knots, or sea-miles," said Louis.
In the interim of Scoble's absence, Louis, assisted by his schoolfellow and devoted friend, Felix McGavonty, had accomplished what his father had failed to achieve in ten years of incessant search: he had found the missing million of his grandfather, and had become a millionaire at sixteen.
Juggernaut's car, of which you have read, Mr.
The father was robbed of his throne, and retreated to Persia; and it was on the way there that Akbar was born, in 1542.
The commander had been to the landlord, and asked for his bill; but the worthy Parsee informed him that it had already been paid.
The party who could not understand him followed in the hymn-books.
"The Blanche is close aboard of us, Captain Ringgold," said Mr.
"He gave the Hindus entire freedom of worship; though far in advance of his successors, he prohibited cruel customs, such as the burning of widows, and other barbarous practices.
The commander stated the case to him.
Everybody was unusually social; but as the commander had announced that the particulars of the wreck of the Travancore would be detailed in due time by Dr.
The river is ordinarily about half a mile wide, but in the season of high water it is double that width.
At the entrance of the party the girls rose from the floor and saluted them deferentially.
This wind produces rain, and when they infrequently fail, portions of the country are subjected to famines.
Then Louis and his mother were presented and described, and received an equally warm welcome.
"One would suppose that the sharks, which abound in these waters, would make it dangerous business; but very few accidents occur, for the commotion about the boats seems to scare them away.
The roast beef and chickens were very good, and the fruit was highly appreciated.
"Those are not oxen; they are called bullocks in this country.
The clothing of each person was placed on a stool at the door of his room, and he was notified where to obtain it.
"The city of Bombay occupies the south end of the island of the same name, and is one of a group of several, of which Salsette is the largest, with which Bombay Island, eleven miles in length, is connected by causeways, over which the railway passes.
The party alighted in a large court, surrounded by sheds, in which are a number of bullocks, some of them with their eyes bandaged, others lame, or otherwise in a helpless condition.
He was surrounded by a small mob of young Hindus, neatly dressed in the native garments of white cotton.
Belgrave had taken with her Mrs.
They are having a close call; but I hope we shall be able to save them," replied the third officer.
"Some of them have studied law in England, and all are forward to avail themselves of the advantages of education.
"They are engaged by rich people when they give parties, and for weddings and other festive occasions." "Is that man the only musician?" "He is the only one for this entertainment, and he plays the tom-tom with his fingers.
Of the vast population, now approaching a million, not more than 13,000 are British-born.
"According to Captain Haines of the Indian navy, we may expect it to last five days longer, for we have had nearly one day of it." "Not quite so bad as that, Mr.
There are other races here, as the Malabars.
I have read most of this author's books again, but I never looked into 'The King's Own' a second time." "I think we all like to have a story 'end well,' though it was a rather violent bringing up Saturday night," said Dr.
This animal, not much bigger than a weasel, is a great cobra-killer, and he understands his business.
"Cawnpore is on the right bank of the Ganges, six hundred and twenty-eight miles from Calcutta," said Lord Tremlyn, when the party were seated in the Conference-Hall carriage, and the train was moving away from Agra.
Ferrolan." This gentleman was received almost as enthusiastically as the handsome Hindu; for the Americans were disposed to treat all their guests with uniform courtesy, though it was hardly possible not to make an exception in favor of Sir Modava.
what will you call that vehicle, Miss Blanche?" "That is called a _gharri_" interposed Sir Modava, who was within hearing.
Boulong's vision had taken in the drowning man, and he fully realized that the person's situation was desperate, if he was not already hopelessly lost.
"No, sir; they cover a broad range of useful information," replied the commander.
Entering Cawnpore, he saw the results of the atrocious massacre in the mutilated bodies of the women and children with his own eyes.
But the waves rudely knocked them about, and sometimes upset them so as to require a struggle to regain their upright position.
In front of the elephant marched a band of eighteen or twenty native musicians, playing upon all sorts of Indian instruments, including tom-toms, lutes, like flageolets, cymbals, and horns.
He was like the grave and fearless Puritan soldier, somewhat after the type of 'Stonewall Jackson' of your Civil War, though not as fanatical.
The surgeon of the party was about the size of Mr.
The latter had been considerably damaged by a cyclone.
Windham, one of the chief officials of the custom-house, who had been on board of the ship.
He had been turned over to Baldy Bickling, the second cook of the ship, who had clothed and fed him, and seemed to be unable to do enough for him.
Its bearing was very religious, and it was as eloquent as it was homely compared with studied discourses.
He was not a success in this capacity; and, as my lord says, his work is ridiculed by men of taste.
The chattering creatures immediately surrounded them, holding out their paws for something.
He fastened with claws and teeth upon the neck of the bull, and the king believed that his wager was lost.
"I do not, Louis." "I thought all the officers, including the commander, took the observation, and worked up the reckoning for the longitude.
This is the way the machine is operated.
At Conference Hall the three couples met, and the lectures were again commented upon; for this subject was uppermost in the mind of the commander.
On their arrival at the Victoria, they found all the rest of the tourists assembled in the parlor, to whom they gave an account of what they had seen.
"I am certain that any suggestion in regard to expense would hurt the feelings of my friends and companions." "I thank you, Dr.
I am only afraid that I did not do all that might have been done." "I could have done no more if I had been there with all my ship's company," the commander declared; for the amateur captain of the Travancore was a conscientious man, and desired to relieve his mind of all blame for his conduct; and he had really done all that could be done, though the remedy applied was a failure.
"I have to observe in the first place that almost one-half of this great region is tropical, though not a square foot of it is within three hundred and fifty miles of the equator.
Something like it is the peepul, or pipal, though its branches do not take root in the ground like the other.
In the Himalayas, on the borders of China, teas are grown under European direction; and you will excuse me if I suggest that they are better than those of 'the central flowery nation.' Dye-stuffs, indigo, and lac are noted for their quality and their quantity.
They all visited the sanctuary of the temple, which was said to date back a thousand years.
Belgrave, as the booming gun attracted the attention of the entire party.
They found an abundance of temples on the shores of the sacred stream, and a beautiful _ghat_ or staircase to the water, which excited their admiration.
Under the rear pavilion, and behind him, is the king's prime minister.
It was but a five hours' journey to Cawnpore, and the party arrived there in season for luncheon.
If you write to your friends in the United States about it, you can spell the last syllable t-i, if you prefer; for Indian orthography is not yet controlled by statute, as I hope it will be when we have established an _Académie Indienne_, such as they have in France.
The hall was furnished with sofas and easy-chairs for the occasion, and they were made very comfortable.
It was on parchment, printed in plain, clear type, and the frame was as elegant as money could buy.
"Rammohun Roy, or Rajah Ram Mohan Rai, was a Hindu ruler in the Presidency of Bengal, born in 1772.
"Kill us both, since we cannot live without your love!" the interpreters rendered her piteous cry.
He spoke English, and seemed to be a bright fellow so far as his occupation was concerned.
It was begun in 1630, and twenty thousand workmen were employed upon it for seventeen years.
Many precious stones are found in Ceylon; and the pearl fishery is a very important source of wealth, though its value is variable in different years.
He stood on the rail, holding on at the main shrouds, ready for further orders.
"Perhaps you have seen snakes enough for one day," said Lord Tremlyn; "but I thought you ought to see the performance of the snake-charmers.
Here you will obtain your first view of the Ganges, varying in width from a third of a mile to a mile.
"Sir Modava Rao!" exclaimed Felix.
Belgrave or the parents of Miss Blanche.
"Good-morning, Captain Ringgold," replied Scott, as he halted to ascertain if the commander had any orders for him.
The entire company, including the captain and the third officer, who were to take part in the business of sight-seeing, consisted of sixteen persons, which was just the complement for four carriages, if they were large enough to seat four.
"We saw the tomb of the Queen of Oude in Père-la-Chaise." "I will tell you about her presently," continued Lord Tremlyn.
The side of the little steamer was stove in, and she began to fill.
"How long is it since you made out the wreck, Mr.
They went to the saloon in which dinner was served, closely followed by their servants; and the scene there was decidedly unique to the Americans, for there were as many servants as guests.
The best class of laborers get four _annas_ a day, and others not more than two,--six to twelve cents a day.
Quite a number of them are lecturers"-- "Lecturers!" exclaimed the distinguished guest.
"I think I have had enough of this thing," said Mr.
The gale continued the rest of the day and during the night.
The tigers were all skinned by the coolies and the crew of the steamer, as were the leopards; but after Mrs.
It was very nearly breakfast-time, and the trio had had abundant time to dress themselves in the garments provided for them, and he requested all the party to descend to the cabin, leading the way himself.
I will bring him down, for he waits very patiently to be shot.
About a hundred and fifty miles east of Lahore is Simla, nearly eight thousand feet above the sea.
Then the antecedents, climate, politics, and other influences, have made the East differ from the West, and the South from both of them.
Europeans, Malays, Arabs, Chinese, and Hindus frequent the grove.
Belgrave rather languidly; and this was about the situation of most of the party.
"I desire to make it as attractive as possible, and I have studied to vary it all I could." "You have turned your ship into a noble and useful institution," replied the guest.
They visited the temples and the palaces of the nobles, where they were received with the utmost attention.
The officer was a very trim-looking man of forty, and was promptly conducted to the commander on the promenade deck.
The next feature to which I call your attention is Sir Modava Rao, on snakes." The gentleman was received quite as warmly as before; but Mrs.
CHAPTER XXV FELIX MCGAVONTY BRINGS DOWN SOME SNAKES "Well, what do you think of this?" asked Captain Ringgold, turning to Mrs.
At quarter before five the gong was sounded in the cabin and on deck to call the party together in the boudoir, where they were to assemble.
Rats, mice, sparrows, and jackals have an asylum in the Jain hospital.
"Some of our rivers in England have bores, though not book-agents; so have the Seine, the Amazon, and others with broad estuaries.
Possibly they saw some of the peaks, for Mount Nauda Devi was within a hundred miles of the point on the railroad where they would be in the morning; and this is more than twenty-five thousand feet high.
You observe near the point of the peninsula some towers, like pagodas, which will give you your first impression of the temples of India." Opera-glasses were then in demand, and were brought to bear on the towers.
Louis declared that the mongoose was a friend worth having, and immediately made a bargain with the huntsman to procure him a couple of them, and send them to Calcutta.
But as soon as all were seated, order came out of confusion, and the service proceeded.
The greater portion of India has a warm climate, and the dress of the people is adapted to it.
They rode over the town after a collation at a clubhouse, and saw all that was to be seen.
"The treacherous commander of the rebels had provided about twenty boats of all sizes, and supplied them with provisions, in order to complete the deception," continued Captain Chesly when the party had alighted.
Bangs gave the proper signal for the affirmative, after he had struck the gong.
Wherever he goes, at whatever distance from his country he may be, he finds a roof and a hearthstone which he may make his own for the time.
Her worship is odious and disgusting; for her altars were formerly sprinkled with human blood, and the idols were surrounded with dead bodies and skulls.
The Company said, 'Let us make a nation in India;' and they went to work at once to do it.
Another in June, 1870, did nearly as much damage." "I should think the bore would make mischief here," suggested Louis.
After it had attained considerable importance, in 1756, it was attacked by the Nawab of Bengal, the king or rajah; and after a siege of two days the place yielded.
They are titled individuals, two of the trio, who have not only travelled all over the peninsula, but have very influential relations with the officers of the government, and the native princes, rajahs, kings, maharajahs, and nobles.
It made the Americans shudder when their guides told them about it more in detail than when it was described in the lecture.
The tourists at the end of the two hours were willing to vote that they had seen enough of the caverns, and they returned to the hotel in season for dinner.
"I congratulate you, madam, on being the mother of such a noble son; for not many young men with the fortune he has at his command would pull an oar in such a gale, such a storm, even to save his fellow-beings from perishing in the angry waves," said his lordship, as he took the hand of the lady.
"I think I had better set two tables, for sixteen would be rather crowded in the space we use now," replied Mr.
The dinner was fully equal to Mr.
But that rock gave a name to this island, applied by the Portuguese two or three hundred years ago.
All of them gazed at him with intense interest, not unmingled with admiration.
The Ganges, though it does not vie with the great rivers of America, is 1,557 miles in length.
"Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava have both spoken in the highest terms of this feature.
He called himself Cæsar, and Kaiser is simply a corruption of that name, with no German allusion in it.
"I have seen them in London, and these laborers would regard them as an invention of the Evil One to lead them away from their religion." Parsees and other merchants were circulating in the crowd, making notes of the prices; and the great variety of representatives of different countries was surprising to the visitors.
The Spaniard was the victor.
"We will drive over there and see," replied the viscount as he directed the coachman.
"Let me take his place, Captain Ringgold!" eagerly exclaimed Louis Belgrave.
If Captain Sharp desires to see some Indian sports, he can go with us to Baroda, stay a week, and then return to his ship here by railway." "I like that idea, as my wife wishes to see a little more of India on shore, though she does not wish to take the long journey you are to make," added Captain Sharp.
Wahs!" of the Hindu audience.
It was seriously damaged by a cyclone a dozen years ago; but they are still at work upon it, though it is said to be doubtful whether or not it will ever be safe for ships in a violent storm.
One was a celebrated physician and surgeon, suffering from overwork, Dr.
Resulting from the intermarriage of members of different castes there are various mixed classes.
CHAPTER XXIII THE UNEXAMPLED LIBERALITY OF THE HOSTS The Blanche, the elegant white steam-yacht of General Noury, which had sailed in company with the Guardian-Mother from Aden, and which had assisted in the rescue of the crew of the Travancore, had come into the harbor of Bombay, and lay at anchor not half a mile from her consort.
Louis stated their position, that when the cartman said "Mavalipoor" they had assented, without knowing what he meant.
"Whose statue is that--the Duke of Wellington?" asked Louis, as he walked on one side of Sir Modava, with his mother on the other side.
You will see the palaces, mosques, and temples, and I will not describe them.
The train in which they had come from Baroda was to be used by them as far as Calcutta, and they were ready to leave that night.
A MERE STATEMENT ABOUT BUDDHISM 207 CHAPTER XXIII.
Gaskette was directed to get the ship on her course again; and Captain Ringgold went aft to welcome the shipwrecked mariners, or whatever they were.
"On my left, of course." "Then Sir Modava will have to oblige you by locating Benares on both sides of the Ganges, and I don't believe it would be convenient for him to do that," said Louis, laughing at the expense of his mother, who blushed, though she did not see what was wrong, when she realized that she had made a blunder of some kind.
Boulong could see that some of the men in the water were nearly exhausted; for many of them had wasted their strength in useless struggles.
The chronology of India is not reliable, but it is claimed that this event dates back to 3101 B.C.
In his last moments he said: 'For more than forty years I have so ruled my life that when death came I might face it without fear.' This he did; and England will never cease to remember the Christian hero, Sir Henry Havelock.
He suggested that the party had had enough of this performance, to which all the ladies, with Mr.
There he found Louis with his revolver in readiness to fire.
The owner and voyager in our consort, the white ship abreast of us, whose boat picked up five men of your ship's company, is a Mohammedan, though the captain and his wife are Congregationalists.
"And you have been married this evening, sahib?" continued the lady.
The next morning the travellers proceeded by railroad to Kandy, which Sir Modava insisted was the right way to spell it.
"But I saw one in New York Harbor; and I have read that one has crossed the Atlantic, going through the Welland Canal from the great lakes." "They have no mission in these waters, though what floats that party looks very much like one.
"That depends," answered Louis, laughing.
Perhaps you saw them from the deck of the ship.
To walk around or through this enormous building was simply impossible, and the party contented themselves with a general view from different points.
The commander thought the music was very fine, and he concluded that Captain Sharp was running near the Guardian-Mother for the purpose of giving the band an introduction to the consort.
You have a voyage of two thousand miles before you." "Which I can make in seven or eight days without hurrying," replied the captain of the Blanche.
The steamer belonged to the government; and she was fitted up in the most comfortable manner, though it was not so gaudy as the craft of a maharajah would have been.
The certificates of shares in companies and banks were not worth the paper on which they were written.
Then they support themselves on the surface, and gaze motionless at the sun as it mounts in the sky." "Are you a sailor, Captain Carlisle?" asked Louis, who thought he was rather poetic for an uneducated man.
But we shall ride over this ground again, and you will have the opportunity to see the various structures in detail." But the tourists were not very much interested in the buildings; for they wanted to see India, its manners and customs, and for the last year they had been seeing edifices as noted as any in the world, though they had yet to be introduced to the temples and palaces of this country, which were different from anything they had seen before.
He found that it was hollow, and filled with jewels of great value.
"The nawab held the fort for seven months, when it was recaptured by Lord Clive.
Akbar died in 1605, and was interred in a beautiful mausoleum, near the city.
A staircase is reserved for women, who are watched over by the elders of their sex.
He resorted to an infamous stratagem, proposing to General Wheeler, who was in command of the British troops, to grant him all the honors of war if he would surrender, with boats and abundant provisions to enable him and all his people to reach Allahabad.
"I am spoiling for a fight with a cobra;" and he came back to plain English, which he could use as well as any one.
Felix was not attended by any one; but he had not gone more than a hundred yards before he saw a huge cobra directly in front of him, bestirring himself as though he "meant business." The fellow stood up, and he looked mad enough to chew up the hunter.
The man who remains faithful to the requirements of the society is protected and supported.
Sixteen _annas_ make a _rupee_.
When they reached the hotel, which was a very comfortable one, in English style, it was two hours to tiffin, and most of the party preferred to pass the time in the parlor.
Going east the time is faster, and _vice versa_," continued the young officer.
"But the hunters are to land here; and they will find all the heavy game they can dispose of, for there have been no hunters here yet this season to scare them off.
"We shall not be where you can see anything for an hour or more," continued Captain Ringgold.
Ferrolan, the subject was ignored, and the voyage of the Guardian-Mother was the general subject of conversation.
But the fellow would not stop, and the lively boys all leaped out of the cart to the ground.
That will be one of our first rides.
"These mountains consist of a number of ranges; they extend 1,500 miles east and west, and are the sources of the Indus, Ganges, and Brahmaputra.
Some of the party looked out the windows, and the intelligent guide explained what was to be seen along the way.
Boulong has painted the ship, and she looks as taut and snug as a man-of-war," said the commander, who was evidently glad to see his vessel.
"He is a great sportsman; and I have no doubt you will be invited to hunt with him, as well as to witness some exhibitions which may not be agreeable to the ladies." "Don't we stop at any stations on the road?" asked Louis.
But in the midst of the gloom of this miserable summer there was a gleam of sunshine, and the sad disasters at Cawnpore and elsewhere were partially retrieved.
"Then we will explain that first.
He had purchased a steam-yacht of four hundred tons, in which he had followed the Guardian-Mother, and had several times attempted to sink her in collisions.
Belgrave, as all the ladies hurried away to the cabin to prepare for the grand occasion that had so suddenly dawned upon them.
Scoble sailed in her to New York, and then to England, where she obtained a divorce from her recreant husband, and became the wife of Captain Sharp, who was now in command of the Blanche, the white steamer that sailed abreast of the Guardian-Mother when the wreck in the Arabian Sea was discovered.
He chased one assailant and then another, being as often turned aside from his intended victims by the thorning of the other tormentors.
The news of the Indian mutiny called him hastily to Calcutta.
None of its members can marry into another caste, or even eat with those of a lower rank.
Venerable crows, vultures, buzzards, and other bipeds, most of them with their plumage gone, pass the remainder of their lives in peace in this curious retreat.
But most of the party took no interest in these structures, they had seen so many more that were larger, grander, and finer.
From the top of one of the minarets a very fine view of the surrounding country can be obtained; but the ascent is by a very narrow flight of circular stairs, two hundred in number.
At that moment the striped beast went up into the air so quickly that the audience could hardly see how it was done.
"An attempt was made to check the advance of the rebels eight miles from the city; but it was a failure, with the small available force, and two days later the enemy attacked the British at the Residency.
Maize, which I believe you Americans call Indian corn"-- "Simply corn, if you please," interposed the commander.
The ladies were timid about it; but Louis told his mother that she must get up into the howdah as though she had been riding elephants all her life, and she did so, the others following her example.
But it renders a more immediate and practical service to the people; for it is navigable for small craft from the point where it enters the lowlands, seventy or eighty miles north of Delhi.
The weather was fine, and the passengers assembled in Conference Hall to talk with the three experts on board about the various places they had visited in India.
"It smells just like assafoedita.
This ceremony, not set down in the programme, brought forth rapturous applause and ringing cheers.
It was evident to the officers that the gale was breaking; or perhaps, as the commander put it, the ship was running out of it.
[Illustration: "The striped beast went up into the air."--Page 263.] The bull crouched his head, increased his speed, and bounded on the tiger.
SIR HENRY HAVELOCK AND THE MUTINY 128 CHAPTER XV.
The foot of the infuriate beast was raised to crush his skull, when another man flashed a Bengal light in his face, with the flame almost in his eyes, and the giant bellowed and fled.
Captain Ringgold had no friends, and received no invitations, though the entire company of tourists were included in those of both the general and the distinguished gentlemen who had insisted upon being the hosts of the party.
12, to which Sir Modava Rao had been shown, and then to No.
He invited the party to step to a certain point, and view the mosque as a whole.
"The Parsees, of whom a few families own half the place, are prominent in business, as in Bombay; and they supply the most skilful mechanics, the liveliest clerks, and the quickest boys in the schools.
It was impossible to visit all the wonderful structures on the road without spending at least a year in the country; and a dozen volumes would hardly contain the description of them.
"This is General Noury's birthday, sir, and Captain Sharp is taking proper notice of it," replied Mr.
black my shoes," said Louis, determined to make use of his servant.
At the present day this is the holy of holies of the Hindus.
The slip-noose is tightened around his neck, the tree flies up into the air, carrying the tiger with it.
Her life had been simple, and she had always been a faithful wife.
It has sixty large steam-mills.
Every door in India, except those of a few mosques and Parsee temples, open to them, and procure for them and their friends all the privileges that can reasonably be expected.
He was defeated and driven back to Cawnpore." "Smarting under this defeat, and stimulated to revenge for it, Nana at once ordered the massacre of the helpless prisoners on his return.
"We have come to make things a little more social," said the Hindu gentleman as they entered the compartment; and the servants brought stools from the toilet-room, so that all were seated, making quite a family group.
It is simply the fashion of the country; and if you spoke of corn in Chicago, it would mean maize to the people who heard you." "I shall know how to speak to an American audience on this subject hereafter; but _corn_ and millet are raised for the food of some of the animals.
CHAPTER XXVII VARIOUS COMBATS IN THE GUICOWAR'S ARENA The party remained a week at the palace of the Guicowar, and every day had a new pleasure or recreation.
I shall permit you to describe the flowers after you have seen them; but the vegetation generally of the island is exceedingly luxuriant.
Commander, and ladies and gentlemen, I beg to inform you that my Lord Tremlyn is quite as capable of speaking for himself as I am for him; but as I am called upon to make this explanation, I shall do so with pleasure.
Some of them are cutting up fuel and arranging the pyre, while others seated on the walls play a lugubrious strain on the native instruments.
"Finally, after a thousand adventures, which he never wrote out, he arrived at the court of Oude, where, by some means, he obtained a captaincy in the royal army, and, what was better, the favor of the king.
On the left were two full columns, not yet crumbled away as others were, which gave the observers a complete view of what a vast number of others there were.
"It is time for me to settle up our accounts, Lord Tremlyn," said the commander, as they were seated on the veranda after the intended departure had been announced.
"They are coming here all the time.
"But I do not choose to wait a year or two for a settlement," protested the visitor.
Now we will walk across to the Chowringhee Road, where the finest private residences of the city are situated.
Sir Modava gave the most dignified one a rupee, and Lord Tremlyn made a similar gift to another.
From the hotel they proceeded to the river.
Sir Modava, who was telling the rest of the company something more about the banyan-tree, rushed to the spot from which the alarm came.
The Nautch girls were not the same the tourists had seen earlier in the day.
"At this time only a few provinces were subject to the rule of his father; but in a dozen years Akbar had made himself master of all the country north of the Vindhya Mountains, or of a line drawn from Baroda to Calcutta, though he was not so fortunate in subduing the southern portion of the peninsula.
The crew of nine were all dressed in their white uniforms, and sat with their oars tossed, except the cockswain, who stood bolt upright abaft the back-board.
The serpent thus treated was furious with anger, and instantly opened out his hood, showing the spectacles in full.
Following the Ganges to Allahabad," continued the speaker, pointing out the river and the city on the map, "he organized, at this point, a force of two thousand men, and pushed on for Cawnpore, driving the enemy before him.
Everything about the trap is made very strong, and there the savage marauder hangs till he chokes to death.
I will go to my state-room for the book, if you will permit me to read about ten lines from it to you." The captain did not object, and Scott soon returned to the commander's cabin with the book.
This place is near London.
The government was committed to the care of a regent, who became a tyrant; and the young prince took possession of it himself at the age of eighteen.
The party could see that one of them was getting the worst of it, and was inclined to "hedge." In fact, he had had enough of it; but he was too wise to abandon his tactics when it was time for him to retreat.
The carriages followed the shore road till they came to the upper end of the city, and then turned into the first of the long streets with several names in different parts, which extends entirely through the town.
They have two fire-temples here.
The vehicle was such as none of the Americans had ever seen.
He owes his life to Sharp without a doubt.
But the whole was so nearly like what the strangers had seen before, that they were not absorbed by it, and gave more attention to the people attending the feast; for they were an exceedingly interesting study to them.
In spite of the awe and respect with which the Parsees regard fire, they are about the only eastern people who do not smoke.
They admired and loved the noble gentlemen under whose guidance they had had six weeks of the best time in all their lives.
Let Dinky take care of him; for my pet is spoiling for a fight, as one of the Americans said yesterday," interposed Khayrat.
"I shall next call upon Mr.
This announcement was greeted with unusually stormy applause, in which the ladies joined, and then flourished their handkerchiefs as an additional welcome to the handsome Hindu.
Some of your American Indians bury the weapons of the dead chief, food, and other articles with him, as has been the custom of other nations, in the belief that they will need these provisions in the 'happy hunting-ground.' The Hindus believed that the dead husband would need his wife on the other shore; and this is the meaning of the custom." "It is not wholly a senseless custom," said Mrs.
They are very strict in the observance of their religion, and not one of them would eat pork or drink wine or liquors.
Some of the apartments, especially the bath-room of the monarch, made the visitors think of the Arabian Nights.
We should do the same with Americans; and I account myself fortunate in being the first to greet you, and welcome you to India." The other two heartily responded to the sentiments of the speaker, and the commander could say no more.
But here we are at the tailor's.
The same apportionment was made on board of both steamers, and Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava were most vigorously cheered by the two ships' companies.
You have not half seen Bombay yet." "We should need ten years for our trip if we were to exhaust every place we visit," replied Captain Ringgold.
They were in sight of the lofty mountains of the island before mentioned.
"The western terminus of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway is here, and with its connections it extends all over India.
"I have seen enough of India." "But you have not seen one-half of India," replied Louis.
It was a compartment like a box, about seven feet long, with a pair of sliding doors at the side.
The charmers then produced a couple of instruments which Sir Modava called lutes, looking more like a dried-up summer crookneck squash, with a mouthpiece, and a tube with keys below the bulb.
It seems to include the recognition of the immortality of the soul, which at the death of the body passes into another form of existence,--a man, a woman, a lower animal, or even a tree or other plant.
"But the actresses in that play were all exceedingly pretty girls, and I did not suppose so many of them could be found in all India." "That was just what I was saying to Govind after the performance, and he laughed as though he would choke himself to death," interposed Lord Tremlyn, laughing rather earnestly himself.
All who had lost any of the money were paid in full; and the gentleman took a fancy to the young man who consulted him.
"In regard to the clothing," said the commander, as he threw back his head, elevated his shoulders, and spread out his arms, so as to exhibit to its full extent the height and breadth of his stalwart form, "I was, unfortunately, unable to contribute to the supply of garments for your party; for mine on any one of you would have been like a shirt on a handspike." "But a London tailor could hardly have fitted us any better," replied the spokesman of the trio.
This institution may remove care and anxiety from the mind of the man, and make him, as we find here, calm and contented, but without the ambition of the business-man.
Here the Pacha desired an interview with Captain Ringgold, who refused to receive him on board, for he had learned in Funchal that his character was very bad, and he told him so to his face.
"The Mohammedans here are an important class of people, and some of them are very wealthy, and are honest and upright merchants.
He conducted them to an opening, lighted by a hole in the hill, where they found a staircase guarded by two lions, leading into what is called the Lions' Cave.
"He says you engaged him to take you to Mavalipoor," the rider explained.
The Madras, the southeastern part, with most of the peninsula.
Commander, and ladies and gentlemen, I am utterly unable to express my high appreciation of the religious service in which we have all assisted.
It is surrounded by a Gothic fence, with lofty towers in the same style.
It was not a new thing to the travellers, for they had seen such conveyances in Constantinople and elsewhere.
The united party had thoroughly enjoyed the day, even into the evening.
Woolridge, who was a reformed sportsman, may have been tempted; but he did not feel at home in this kind of sporting, and he did not break through any of his good resolutions.
On the other side of the apartment was a toilet-room, with all conveniences required for washing and other purposes, including a water-cooler.
"It is watered by the Indus and five of its branches, on one of which, the Ravi, Lahore is situated.
Captain Sharp and his wife were on board.
Himalaya means 'the abode of snow,' and the foot-hills are the resorts of the wealthy to obtain a cool climate in the summer.
Every seaman, fireman, and waiter received five pounds, and every officer a larger sum, in proportion to his rank, after the manner in which prize-money is distributed on board of ships of war.
A large python was Scott's first prize; and, after a long walk, they came to a nest of tigers, as it seemed, for there were not less than five of them drinking at a brook.
"You can write it down in your diaries." "We might as well attempt to copy the top of a tea-chest," added Louis.
"I know I can!" replied Louis very confidently.
The principal one was by the king himself, who enlarged upon his relations with Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava, whom he regarded as two of his best friends.
It has a population of about one hundred and sixty-five thousand." "I asked the question with a view to omit it from the list if there are no sights of importance, and, after what you have said, I shall do so; and tomorrow we will take the train for Calcutta," added the captain.
"On our right is Byculla, one of the divisions of the city, and a business quarter, where you will find the retail shops, though they are not all here," said the viscount.
Lord Tremlyn had more than once manifested a desire to be in the same carriage with Miss Blanche; and he went with her and Louis on this occasion, while Mr.
"Now we come to a building worth looking at," said Sir Modava, as they passed beyond the assemblage of palaces.
Their dead are not buried or cremated, but are committed to what is called the Tower of Silence.
The fight was ended, and Khayrat caressed the victor.
They go about the streets with their faces uncovered, and are clothed for the most part like the Hindu women.
"I like that kind of a winding up of a story, and I don't like the other kind," added the magnate of the Fifth Avenue.
"Pull to the Apollo Bunder, if you please, my man," said he.
Belgrave," said Sir Modava, as they were looking at the trees.
He continued to add others, one at a time, till he had eighteen of them whirling above his head.
Four _pice_ make an _anna_, a penny and a half, three cents.
"If they went to the border of the stream to dip up water the crocodiles would pick them up as fast as they did so," added the captain; and all the ladies shuddered, and wanted to get out of such a horrible place.
He spoke English as fluently as the general.
The stores of the principal merchants of Delhi were here, and most of them were on the plan of an Oriental bazaar.
"He brought with him some crude notions of architecture, and he set about reforming that of India.
But the Spaniard shook him off, and turned upon him again, tossing him higher in the air than before.
I am afraid you do not appreciate our native music, and we did not engage any more of it.
It was a tremendous occasion; and it was a festival honored by banquets, processions, and royal gatherings.
"Into the Ganges?" queried the lady.
"It may be a matter of no particular consequence; but you will excuse me for saying that the left bank is the one on your left as you go down the stream, and not at all as you go up." "I remember now, for I learned that in my geography when I first went to school; and it is strange that I should have forgotten it," added Mrs.
Something like a voice seemed to be sounding in at the open windows.
The English have made a sort of museum here; and the superior officer who did the honors to his lordship showed them the throne of Akbar, a long marble seat, inlaid with precious stones, with a graceful canopy of the same material over it; and the boys thought he would have had a more comfortable seat if he had put off the period of his reign to the present time.
The Government House occupies a position next to it, and they passed it as they entered.
It was the time of year for the north-east monsoons to prevail, and the commander had declared that the voyage would probably be smooth and pleasant all the way to Bombay.
Hawkes had taken his professional brother in charge, and Louis, Sir Modava, as the commander had Lord Tremlyn, and they were showing them over the ship.
He was conducted to the viscount.
"There is a procession of pilgrims just arrived," said Captain Carlisle, pointing to the high ground beyond the ghat.
These annual average temperatures will not seem high to you; but I beg you not to form a wrong impression, for the heat of summer is generally oppressive, and the average temperature is considerably reduced by the coolness of the winter months.
Khayrat followed Louis, for he had been informed that he was the most important person in the quartet.
The great black marble slab on which Akbar sat to administer justice was pointed out.
The men were still backing water with their oars, in obedience to the order of the officer; but as soon as the oars would go clear of the self-possessed gentleman, Mr.
"Is it possible that this little fellow is married, Sir Modava?" exclaimed the principal lady from Von Blonk Park.
There were three vacant state-rooms, to which they were assigned, and each of them had a bathroom connected with it.
They were awake very early in the morning, and they certainly saw some high mountains in the distance, but could not identify them by name.
"It would be a little cheeky for me to vote to leave the ship without the permission of the captain or of the first officer." "'In colleges and halls in ancient times there dwelt a sage called Discipline;' and a very good old fellow he was to have about, and quite as good on board ship as in institutions of learning.
Many believed that the knell of the empire had sounded.
The accommodations for the party were ready on their arrival, and even the luncheon was on the table.
The business part is at the Fort, where we landed, and the bazaars extend from that in the direction of Mazagon, which lies to the north and east of it.
The mausoleum is placed on an esplanade, like the great mosque in the city.
The natives had been transformed into trained soldiers, and they felt the power that was in them.
"I suppose if we stayed here a couple of years more we should not see the whole of the country.
There are many Hindu temples in Bombay, though not many of them are accessible to strangers; but the party drove to one in the Black Town.
He set forth the obligations to which his passengers and himself were under to the distinguished gentlemen who had conducted them through India.
It appeared to be so poised, with the pole above the centre of gravity, that it could not be turned over.
Chairs had been provided for the guests, and all the party were seated when six bells struck.
Though the building is plain, as a whole, Captain Carlisle pointed out a highly ornamental window, with a profusion of handsome brackets.
A couple of the performers produced two swords twenty-six inches long, and pushed them down their throats to the hilt, and then asked Dr.
The rest of the company had been aft with the ladies, but they all rushed forward at the report of the rifle.
The Parsees kept their religious affairs to themselves, and the party were not to "assist" at the ceremony, which would have been an extra inducement to attend.
They are about to begin." The musician beat the tom-tom, and the girls rose from the floor, shook out their dresses as any lady would, and then it appeared that the ornaments on their ankles were bells, which rattled as though it were sleighing-time as they moved about.
I was formerly in his service, and he considers himself under some slight obligations to me.
"India is a vast territory, forming the southern peninsula of Asia, with a population, including the native states, of very nearly two hundred and fifty-four million people," continued the speaker, taking a paper from his pocket.
Besides, the natives are very tender of all animals," replied Sir Modava.
"We are not accustomed to the companionship of titled personages," said the commander at its conclusion.
"I am ten years old, madam," replied Dinshaw, with the sweetest of smiles.
But in whatever capacity we travel over India, or such portion of it as you may elect, it is rather necessary that we fix upon a plan for our operations." "I am quite agreed that we had better draw up a programme, and I shall depend upon your counsel in the matter," replied the captain.
He is a sort of bat; and the more of them you shoot, the better the farmer will be pleased, for they feed on his fruit.
The floating debt of England at that time was £10,000,000; and the Earl of Oxford concocted a scheme to pay it off, and formed a company of merchants for that purpose.
It forms a wall of water in the Hoogly seven feet high, which is sometimes dangerous to small craft.
Its cost was from ten to fifteen millions of dollars.
It has also a Portuguese, a Dutch, and a British period; and it was finally annexed to the British crown by the Treaty of Amiens, in 1802.
Indra, the counterpart of Apollo in some of his functions, drives the chariot of fire that lights the day.
"I mention one as a specimen, the Kolarian language, spoken by those who first settled in the hilly regions of the central part.
Blossom, as they were waiting for breakfast in the music-room.
"Because monkeys are harmless, and the Hindus consider them sacred.
Louis and Felix had ascended the fore-rigging, and discovered what might have been the land or a bank of clouds.
The southern part of this neck of land is the native quarter.
It was here that Outram had his camp and fortifications for the defence of Lucknow during the absence of Campbell.
The party wandered through the caverns for two hours, and Sayad and Moro, the only servants brought with them, kindled fires in the darker places, to enable them to see the sculpture.
Sharp, who had been the most devoted of nurses to him, spoke their minds to him very plainly.
Boulong had called upon the commander the evening before, and he had been invited to join the party; but he had excused himself, and suggested that Mr.
From this little gem of a church the company were driven to the Chandi Chowk, which is a boulevard, planted with trees and lined with elegant buildings.
For he's a jolly good fellow!
"They are mounted on a couple of as handsome horses as I ever saw in my life," replied the commander.
Bombay, the western province of the peninsula, includes twenty-four British districts and nineteen native states, the latter governed wholly or in part by Hindu rulers.
"If I had done what you say I should certainly have been bitten.
Our gallant saviours know how we were rescued--all honor and glory to them!" The doctor finished his explanation and took his seat.
Some of them were armed with lances, and others with a stick with fireworks at the end.
Effigies of the god are made of terra-cotta, painted and gilded, and borne by processions through the streets.
"What does all that mean?" queried Captain Ringgold, as the party gathered about him for an explanation, though he was as much puzzled as any of them.
They had great black eyes; their complexion was only the least tawny, and was paler than it would have been if they had lived on a more invigorating diet than rice and fruits.
"I put all my charts on board of the Guardian-Mother when we sailed for Bermuda the first time.
"I am to tell you something, not much, about Madras, where we shall arrive about this time day after to-morrow," the Hindu gentleman began; and the usual smile which had fascinated all the ladies was on his face.
When the father died in 1851, the pension was not continued to the son.
Boulong, and Scott had the first part of the afternoon watch.
"Oh, save him!" He pointed to him as the stern of the boat rose on a billow; and he proved to be the person towards whom the cockswain was steering the boat.
On the great table was spread out the large chart of the Indian Ocean.
"The hotel is not in this direction," replied the horseman with much suavity.
He has been on a mission in the interests of his father to obtain certain information, though he holds no official position.
Lahore is the capital of the Punjab, and has a population of a hundred and seventy-seven thousand, though it once contained a million.
This battle is to settle the question; and the bets are mostly in favor of the tiger, though the Guicowar, with a few others, places his stake on the bull," Sir Modava explained.
After tiffin they all went on board, where their baggage had been sent before, the Italian band playing all the time on Captain O'Flaherty's steamer, which put them on board.
Instead of reading a printed sermon as usual, he gave an impromptu address relating to the event of the early morning.
The three presidencies are the most notable divisions, and they include all the inferior ones.
"I indorse the sentiment," added Dr.
"We have half a dozen _shigrams_ here," continued his lordship.
This jungle was the objective point of the hunters of the party.
"'Stop; I have something to communicate,'" replied the quartermaster.
He was cool and self-possessed in spite of the peril of his situation, and was observing with painful solicitude the struggles of a person about ten fathoms from him.
The Sikhs and the Jains are Indian sects which flourish in certain localities; as there are nearly two millions of the former in the Punjab, and over half a million of the latter in Bombay, and approaching that number in Rajputana, with comparatively few elsewhere.
Lord Tremlyn, Sir Modava, and Dr.
Most of the party were provided with tune-books, and the captain gave out "The Life-Boat." Books were passed to the strangers, and the commander led off in the singing.
Lord Tremlyn hastened to the captain with extended hand as he stepped down upon the floor of the cabin.
We are now approaching the fortress, or the citadel as it is oftener called.
"There can be no doubt of it," replied the Hindu gentleman.
They defeated the Grand Mogul, drove the French out of the peninsula, and were generally very prosperous.
At the same time a sleight-of-hand man was doing a variety of tricks very skilfully, and acrobats were mounting on each other's shoulders, and pitching themselves about very promiscuously.
Sharp; and the Pacha, accustomed as he was to merriment and revelry, must have been rather lonesome.
"You don't give us much time to get ready, Mr.
The Mogul Empire came to an end in 1761; and Agra was sacked by the Jats, and later the Mahrattas completed the destruction they had begun.
Gaskette would enjoy it more than he should, and he was asked to go.
In time the trunk of the tree decays and disappears, and temples are made of the thick branches.
Men of wealth, and those who have the means without being rich, come to this city when they feel that they have been seized with a malady likely to prove fatal; for to die here with the Hindu is a passport to eternal happiness.
He was dressed in white linen, with an elegant cap on his head.
On the quays were no end of Asiatic goods, mostly of the coarser kind,--the horns of cattle, tortoise shells, elephants' tusks, and bags of pepper, spices, and coffee.
The mausoleum is in the form of an irregular octagon, the longest side being one hundred and twenty feet in length.
"New banks were started; merchants plunged recklessly into the vortex of speculation.
The captain invited those who remained standing to take such seats as they chose; and when all were placed at the table, he reverently said a brief grace.
"What is this man, Sir Modava?" asked Mrs.
When the diver gives the signal he is hauled up, with his bag of oysters, as rapidly as possible.
They were entirely respectful to each other, and she invariably addressed him as Mr.
"We could hear the air and the water bubbling and hissing under us at times, and it was understood that the confined air above the water in the hull had kept her afloat.
A dozen years of this life convinced him that 'all was vanity and vexation of spirit,' and he became a sort of hermit, a religious beggar, and spent his time in dwelling upon the miseries of human life.
The band had laid aside their brass instruments, and organized as an orchestra, stationed in a sort of recess in the forward part of the cabin.
There he lay extended at his full length, as stiff as though he had taken a dose of his own poison.
CHAPTER XXXV A SUCCESSFUL HUNT IN THE SUNDERBUNDS A breakfast at six o'clock was provided the following morning for the tourists, and they came down from their chambers prepared for the aquatic excursion, which was to include something more than sight-seeing, for the gentlemen and the boys were directed to take their rifles along.
The interior was very simple in its style, but very beautiful.
To make the best of it, it was a brutal sport.
"You are not far from right, sir, as far as my associates are concerned; for officially or unofficially they have visited every part of India, and studied up in detail everything relating to the people, the country, the army, and the institutions, both native and British." "As you have been with Lord Tremlyn in his travels, you must be very familiar with the affairs of India, Doctor." "Reasonably familiar; but not so well acquainted with them as my companions," answered the physician.
Each of the boats got under the lee in turn; the falls were hooked on, and both cutters were hoisted up to their davits, as they had come from the scene of their exploits.
Sir Modava said nothing about the use of the building, and led the way into the enclosure.
He was a European of thirty years or less; and though his head, hair, and beard were dripping with salt water, there was something in his expression, as he bestowed a single glance upon the boat now close to him, which commanded the respect, and even admiration, of the first officer.
"In Benares, having ascertained the cause of human misery, and learned the remedy for it, the Buddha began to preach his peculiar salvation.
"You can make it all right with the man by giving him a rupee when he leaves you at your hotel," replied the gentleman, laughing heartily at the mistake, and then informed them that there were some Hindu temples at Mavalipoor, more than thirty miles distant, that were visited by strangers.
"It is not as uneasy as the gait of a camel, though I can feel every step of the bearers.
When the _karma_ is exhausted"-- "What in the world is that?" asked Mrs.
After dinner Lord Tremlyn invited them to an excursion on board of a steam-yacht the next day, the use of which was tendered to him by a high official.
Lord Tremlyn looked at his watch, and then carried a piece of money to the chief charmer, which he received with many salaams, in which his companion joined him, for the fee was a very large one.
I spare you the infliction in full.
"But your meaning was plain enough, and our boys must fall into the methods of expression used here." "Though you have seen the Ganges several times, not much has been said about it; and I will tell you a little more concerning it before we leave, not to see it again.
He had a spyglass in his hand, with which he proceeded to examine the wreck as soon as he had obtained its bearings; for he never did anything, even under such desperate circumstances as the present, until he had first ascertained what was best to be done.
They are really figs, and they are an important article of food.
It is not necessary to indicate any farther the slightly peculiar speech of the accomplished gentleman.
The Americans thought he had done enough for one day, and the horseman retired.
"They are professional dancers, and that is their sole occupation," replied he.
The principal _sapwallah_ had a wand in his hand, which he flourished while he repeated a volume of gibberish which none of the party but Sir Modava could understand.
"Puri, or Juggernaut, is in the district of Orissa, on the western shore of the Bay of Bengal.
It contains several elegant mosques, but the town has not more than a seventh part of its former population of nine hundred thousand," said Sir Modava, as he opened a travelling-bag, and took from it a large bundle of photographs.
Jisht show me a cobry, and thin see me roon!" Before the Milesian could tell how he intended to kill the cobra if he saw one, the train stopped; and a moment later Sir Modava, the commander, and Mrs.
"But where do the elephants and the tigers come in?" asked Scott, as he called upon Moro to "shine" his shoes.
The performance was similar to that the party had seen at the hotel, though it was more finished, and the attitudes and posturing appeared to belong to a higher school of art than the other.
By this time the steamer was in the midst of the fishing-boats and other craft.
At the time of the young people's visit, it was almost entirely abandoned by those who had held possession of it during the day.
Gaskette, who was standing by his map.
It has its source in an ice-cave nearly fourteen thousand feet above the level of the sea.
Blossom had never been to a theatre in their lives, never saw a ballet, and were not capable of appreciating the posturing, though the animated dance pleased them.
CHAPTER XXXI THE TERRIBLE STORY OF CAWNPORE AND LUCKNOW Agra is on one of the great railroads from Bombay to Calcutta, though not the most direct one; and it crosses the Jumna at this point, where a vast bridge was in process of construction over its waters, which must now be completed.
The family had departed on the voyage; but before the Blanche, as the white sailing-yacht was called, reached her destination, she encountered a severe gale, and had a hole stove in her planking by a mass of wreckage.
Its history is somewhat indefinite.
The most tremendous excitement prevailed.
"In what I said about expense I have been moved by what I should do myself if I had the control of the matter, and were as able as Sir Modava and his lordship to incur a heavy outlay; though I have a sufficient income to support a bachelor, I am a poor man compared with them." The interview closed, and the doctor retired at the end of his cigar.
The reforming of this evil is in progress; but the people are baked into their prejudices and superstitions of forty centuries, and it is worse than pulling their teeth to interfere with them.
"Not in the palace grounds, but within a few miles of it a very rugged region may be reached, and a road-wagon will be provided for you.
I do not quite understand what it means; but the first month is usually a time of mourning and fasting in commemoration of the sufferings of the two nephews of the Prophet.
"No, madam; some of them are snakes.
"It had a very extensive commerce in its earlier years, and flourished on its cotton trade during the American war.
"That is just what Sir Modava told me," added Scott.
It was not possible to see a tithe of India, and he felt obliged to leave at the expiration of the time he had fixed for the visit, and he begged Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava not to place them in any more courts, or they would never get out of India.
"I read a story in an old schoolbook Uncle Moses had used when he didn't weigh as much as I do now, which was called 'The Half is Better than the Whole;' and it proved the proposition with which it started out.
Blossom declared that she was never so "frustrated" in all her life.
Monsoon comes from an Arabian or Persian word, meaning a season; and you have learned something about it by this time.
The general replied to all of them at the close of the entertainment.
[Illustration: "The young millionaire walked by the side of the vehicle." --Page 155.] "You must ride in that palanquin, Miss Blanche," said Louis; and he told Sayad to have it brought up to the door.
Those who are interested in the decision of the company, and in the events which followed in consequence of it, are referred to the next volume of the series: "HALF ROUND THE WORLD; OR, SOME ADVENTURES AMONG THE UNCIVILIZED."
Doubtless he had some strong reasons for his decision, though he did not state them; but probably he had not as much confidence in his first officer as Captain Ringgold had in Mr.
CHAPTER VI THE GENERAL INTRODUCTION IN THE CABIN It was still early in the morning, and the cabin party were not disposed to remain any longer on the promenade deck; for it was almost impossible for some of them to stand up, even with the aid of the life-lines and the rails, and all of them retreated to the boudoir and music-room.
Near the huts they found two men, and Sir Modava had a talk with them, which no one else could understand; but he employed them to guide the party and show them their traps.
From this locality they rode through Colaba, and saw some native dwellings, as well as some fine European residences, with beautiful gardens around them.
Statistics are given to some extent for purposes of comparison.
Do you wish to accept the invitation, Mr.
"You need not wait five minutes," added Captain Ringgold.
Captain Ringgold brought down another with three shots from his repeating rifle.
Nearest to the sea is a belt of land, forming a wide extent of jungle, with a dense undergrowth of tropical plants and verdure; for it is in the Torrid Zone, which the tourists entered about forty miles north of Calcutta.
Captain Ringgold condemned the plan to buy a cheap vessel.
I settled all my accounts with him; and I have his receipt in full, signed by him, and witnessed by Captain Sharp and his wife.
"My what?" demanded the lady.
Sir Modava, the engineers, and the cook immediately joined in with him.
"We are coming now to Ahmedabad, which is in Gujrat, or Goozerat, for you take your choice in regard to many of these Indian names; and this city is its chief town, and the second in the province of Bombay.
In the course of the ride they passed the Black Mosque, the only building in the city dating farther back than the reign of Shah Jehan.
It is a fine building, and it has a large garden of its own." "But what is it for?" asked the lady.
They have an enormous bill, as you observe.
The queen then went to Paris, and died there in 1858.
She chose her own position, and it varied considerably at different times, though it was generally about half a mile from her consort.
More than any other sect they hold the lower animals in the highest regard, amounting to a strange sort of tenderness.
"Tiger-hunting is dangerous sport, and you can't be too careful." But the boys were very confident, and all of them were good shots; but they had never tried any hunting of this kind.
Though it rises and falls at different seasons, it never fails, even in the hottest summer; and its inundations render, to some extent, the benefit which the Nile does to the soil of Egypt.
Sir Modava had to talk very fast to describe the scene as it passed before them.
"The English Baptists sent missionaries here eighty years ago; the Methodists a year later; the Americans three years later; and the Church of England five years after.
The company had called upon some of the officials of the government and officers of the army, at the request of his lordship, and most of them made parting calls the next forenoon; and the viceroy sent his private secretary, with the best wishes of his Excellency for a prosperous voyage, to them.
He waited a full hour for them, when Louis returned first, with a very handsome deer slung on a pole with Khayrat carrying the other end.
"Kaiser Bagh seems to be half German." "But it is not German," replied Lord Tremlyn.
"The famous Monkey Temple is just out of the city, and that can be reached by carriages," continued Sir Modava.
Most of the native officials present were seated on the floor; but the gentlemen of the visitors were invited to sit with his Highness, though only Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava accepted it.
You see they have gone to give it to him," replied Sir Modava, as he opened a large paper package he had bought at a store, and proceeded to distribute its contents, consisting of nuts and parched corn, to the members of the monkey community.
On their return to the hotel, they seated themselves in their parlor, and talked till dinner-time about the mausoleum, for they had many questions to ask of the viscount and the Hindu gentleman.
"The captain will understand from that we have saved all the party." Scott approved the suggestion, and the cheers were given with a will, and repeated by the crew of the first cutter, not far behind.
The ex-sportsman was the father of a daughter and a son.
In many instances they had murdered their officers and their families.
He is a member of the cabinet, and has an under-secretary.
Then the viscount decided to proceed to Aden, where he had important business; for he intended to return to England by the Euphrates route, in order to inform himself in regard to the navigation of the river.
Belgrave, as well as the others, extended similar invitations to the three gentlemen.
This stream has its entire course in Hindustan, and is the principal tributary of the Ganges.
Possibly the English guests missed their wine on such an occasion.
The first cutter of the Guardian-Mother had saved three, the second three, and the two boats of the Blanche had picked up five.
This is said to be the site where the apostle of this name, "Doubting Thomas," was martyred.
It is built in the mountains, and it would be a troublesome journey for us to reach it.
"There is no town of any great consequence between Surat and Baroda, and this is a special express train," replied Sir Modava.
But everybody else on board understood the situation better than those the most intimately concerned.
In the first place, I am only eighteen years old, and my brief command was a very small one, as the world goes.
Captain Sharp was confident that his guest was thoroughly reformed, though he did not become a Christian, as his nurse hoped he would.
The performers squatted on the floor, and each placed a basket before him, removing the cover; but the serpents did not come out.
For example, the man who sweeps will not take an empty cup from your hand; your groom will not mow a little grass; a coolie will carry any load, however offensive, on his head, but even in a matter of life and death would refuse to carry a man, for that is the business of another caste.
The next morning the tourists were taken to the Botanical Garden, a short distance above the city, which is said to be the finest as well as the most spacious in the world.
"A durbar is a very important event in India, but is not eatable.
It is nearly the entire western shore of the Sea of Bengal, including the bay, as the northern part of it is called in modern times.
He inquired into the various forms of religion, and even sent for Portuguese missionaries at Goa to explain the Christian faith to him.
"They are the speculators in cottons and other goods, and many of them have immense wealth.
The most grotesque feature was at the entrance.
"Brahma means the universal spirit; but it is not a personal divinity to be worshipped.
They recognize no omniscient, omnipresent, all-powerful Supreme Being, who presides over the universe and all that is in it.
"He is not more than a shade darker than you are, Aunty; and he is a great man in the country we visit next.
None of them had been introduced to the strangers; for they had asked to be excused, as they were not in a presentable condition.
The resting-place of the empress and Shah Jehan is in the centre of the edifice, enclosed by a marble screen.
He watched the motions of the Blanche, for there was nothing else to be seen but the waste of angry waters.
There are many temples, sacred caverns, some of them sculptured like those near Bombay.
In expressing his appreciation of the last speaker, he mentioned that he occupied a difficult position in the presence of those who knew India as they knew their alphabet, and begged them to consider his talk as addressed only to the Americans of the party.
When the missing million came to light, she did not repeat her warning.
Ferrolan a cordial invitation to complete with us our voyage around the world; and we will endeavor to be as hospitable to you in the United States as you have been to us in India." "Nothing would afford me so great a pleasure," replied Lord Tremlyn; "but it would be quite impossible for me to accept the invitation, for I must return to England, and report upon my mission to India." Sir Modava and Dr.
Belgrave warned her son to be very careful, and Mrs.
This is the aristocratic quarter of Bombay.
As in England, they are invariably called "railways." They do not have baggage, but it is "luggage;" a baggage-car is unknown, for they call it a "van;" and the conductor is the "guard." Our travellers had become accustomed to these terms, and many others, in England, and now used them very familiarly.
There is no end of monkeys.
It was not an unpleasant announcement, as they had all become greatly attached to the steamer, for they had always been exceedingly happy on board of her.
A number of female elephants were on an elevation near it; and it seemed as though they were placed there for the same reason that the ladies were admitted to the tournaments of the knights in England and France.
The service was about the same as at home, the clergyman was a native of the Brahmin caste, and he preached a very earnest and sensible sermon.
Of course, if you went out to walk in the jungle you would find wild-flowers enough to make a bouquet." "But who would do it?" asked Mr.
Belgrave, and they made no objection to the new arrangement.
"What is this crowd in the square?" asked Morris, who had been looking about him.
Ferrolan were kept busy explaining the trees, plants, crocodiles, storks, and other animals.
"I beg you will not regard my proposition as anything in the shape of a recompense; for all our fortunes and all our time for years to come would not be an adequate return for the immeasurable service you have rendered to us," protested the viscount.
The stairs on the city side of the river were unlimited as far as the eye could see.
"I have the account in the handwriting of his Highness," added Mazagan, as he presented a paper written in good English.
In the first one were Captain Ringgold, Mrs.
The whole edifice is built of red sandstone.
This wild region is sparsely peopled with Hindus, who are obliged to keep guard over themselves and their families all the time, and are occasionally the victims of the ferocious monsters of the jungle and of the water.
They wore frock-coats, buttoned tight to the throat, and a sort of turban on the head.
The ladies shrank back when they appeared, and some of them shuddered at the sight of the reptiles.
He came down badly disabled; and the bull, as though it was the finest sport in the world for him, gored him with his long horns till the life was gone out of him.
"The natives construct a boat, which is a sort of raft of planks, tied together with ropes, called a _masuláh_, which passes through the surf very well in ordinary weather; but no boat could live in a cyclone in a sea there, for the waves are fourteen feet high." "I should like to try it with the second cutter, so far as the waves are concerned; but bumping on the bottom might spoil the attempt," said Mr.
"The idols in the temple are hideous-looking objects, with enormous eyes and crescent-shaped mouths, the horns pointing upwards.
It has a governor, who rules with an executive council of five, of which the officer in command of the troops is one." "Can your lordship tell me the salary of the governor-general of India?" asked Captain Ringgold.
The captain of the Blanche informed the commander of the Guardian-Mother that the general had never touched wine since he came on board.
But as soon as the company left their places, Louis and Miss Blanche followed the third officer to the promenade deck, to hear the desired explanation of sea-time.
The autocrat of the ship was plainly dissatisfied with himself at the failure of his prediction for fine weather, and perhaps he feared that the ambitious young officer intended to instruct him in regard to the situation, though Scott had conducted himself in the most modest and inoffensive manner.
Due notice had been given to Captain Sharp of the intention to sail for Surat on Tuesday; and on the day before the cabin party of the Blanche, which included Dr.
He wriggled a moment, and then stretched himself out at full length, dead.
But the prince decided to receive the rest of the party at the palace, and they were requested to mount the elephants.
"I will be merciful, Mr.
The houses are mostly of mean appearance, and there are but very few buildings there of any importance.
They are convenient also to the stingy Englishman when the plate is passed around in church," added his lordship with a chuckle, which pleased Uncle Moses more than the remark.
Louis invited Miss Blanche to go with him; and she was always glad to be in his company, especially as Sir Modava was to be his companion.
"We are now in the province of Oude, a word of various orthography," said Lord Tremlyn, after they lost sight of the city from which they started.
ALL OVER THE CITY OF CALCUTTA 327 CHAPTER XXXV.
I can only put in what the vessel will hold.
"Three years later, in the midst of his zealous labors in the service of his Master, he died at Trichinopoly of apoplexy, greatly lamented.
The sea outside was smooth; and at four o'clock in the afternoon the steamer was among the Malacca shoals, in the Gulf of Cambay, with a pilot on board.
The place of the well into which the bodies of the women and children were thrown is marked by a beautiful marble statue of an angel standing by a lofty cross.
It is the glory of this mosque and of Delhi, for only three others exist in the world.
"It is between the two points mentioned before; but it is Kuria Muria on the chart;" and the captain had the point of his pencil on it by this time.
It was balanced on a pole, with braces above and below it.
In charge of the little Maud I was the happiest young fellow on the Eastern Continent; but I am just as happy now, for this morning I was formally appointed third officer of the Guardian-Mother, at the wages paid to Captain Sharp when he had the same position." "I congratulate you, Mr.
Most of the Parsees and Bhorahs who do business here reside in the same section; and there were many fine houses there, though they are abundantly able to live at Breach Candy and Malabar Hill, the abode of the _élite_.
An elephant is equally impracticable, and even in a palanquin your progress would be so slow that you would lose all your stock of patience." "The city must be 'done' by walking, must it?" asked the commander.
The "Big Four," a term of which the viscount and Sir Modava had already learned the meaning, were very impatient to do some hunting.
CHAPTER XXXVI THE PARTING FESTIVITIES ON THE HOOGLY While the hunters were so successfully bagging the big game of the jungle, Captain O'Flaherty had taken the party who had remained on board the steamer on an excursion through some of the waterways of the Sunderbunds, so that they were not wearied by waiting for those more actively employed.
The stick and the top were critically examined by the whole party, but not one of them could suggest an explanation of the trick.
Those who desired to do so were taken to a hunt one day with a cheetah, in which this animal killed deer and other animals; and on another, on elephants, for tigers.
It was founded by the invaders of India.
The rest of the hunters began to shoot ducks, herons, and other water-fowls.
"Is it much of a fall, sir?" asked Felix.
The government buildings are in Lawrence Hall Gardens, where there is also a memorial building in honor of Lord John Lawrence, the first lieutenant-governor, who won his distinction in subduing and ruling over the Punjab.
"It seems very much like riding on a camel, only there is more motion." "It is a good place to see everything there is to be seen," suggested Louis, as he looked about him.
Hence this point is often written Kolaba, and the hill yonder Kumballa.
The "live lord" was only twenty-eight years old, and Sir Modava but thirty, while Dr.
They were returned from the ship; and the voices included those who belonged in the cabin, as well as the officers, seamen, and waiters, while the ladies, clinging to the rails of the promenade, vigorously waved their handkerchiefs, as the sun rose clear from the eastern waves, though it soon disappeared in the clouds.
On opening it, the missive proved to be an invitation for that evening to a wedding for the whole party.
The little square shops challenged the attention of the party, and most of them alighted to examine the rich goods displayed.
It is in the citadel, and in sight of its namesake; but the mausoleum, for it is the tomb of Ali Shah, who died in 1841, stands alone; and it does not fatigue the eyes to look at it.
The two cabin stewards had already been ordered to prepare these rooms for the occupancy of the newcomers.
They were all sealed, with stamps affixed, and Morris's servant Mobarak was directed to put them in the mail-box.
_Galles_ is the French of Wales, and _La Nouvelle Galles_ is New South Wales; without the final _s_, the word means an oak-apple, in French.
"In the Hindu, _abad_ means a town or a village; and if you cut off that ending you will find the person or place for whom it was named, as Akbar-abad." "Precisely as it is in our country, where we have Morris-town, Allen-town, Morgan-town, and a thousand others," added the captain.
Lord Tremlyn had announced the coming of himself and his large party, and a person of his distinction and influence could command anything he desired.
At the gate they saw a little animal which seemed disposed to make friends with them.
"I think it is nice," added Miss Blanche.
"But we are eminently a social party, and we desire our guests to make themselves as much at home on board of the Guardian-Mother as if they owned her, and were running her for their own pleasure." "Thank you, Captain Ringgold.
Blossom are Methodists, while the Woolridge family are Episcopalians, though none of us are bigoted.
Those who were consulted in the party were all for the bungalow, and the problem was finally settled in this manner.
She had taken a position to windward of the Guardian-Mother, and appeared to be doing quite as well in the heavy sea as her consort.
"But what are they?" "Those are rock snakes." "But I don't like the looks of them," said Mrs.
But the flotilla was hardly clear of the shore before a battery of guns, masked from their view, opened a most destructive fire upon them with grape and solid shot, mostly the former.
They presented to them four mango fish, golden-yellow in color, and exquisite in flavor.
The funds of the mission were increased at least a thousand dollars by this visit.
"Captain Ringgold, if you please, we will now exchange places," said the viscount.
They presented an entirely different appearance from what they did in their drabbled garments; for those who had supplied them with clothing had brought out their best clothes, and the three gentlemen seemed to be in condition to go to church.
God gave us fire: is it right, therefore, to let the city burn up when the fire is kindled?
"The country was stirred to its very foundations.
Unhappily it got aground, and all on board of it were captured.
The speakers were assisted by elaborate maps, which the reader can find in his atlas.
The change of course gave her the wind very nearly over the stern, and she pitched instead of rolling, sometimes lifting her propeller almost out of the water, which made it whirl like a top, and then burying it deep in the waves, causing it to moan and groan and shake the whole after part of the ship, rousing all the party in the cabin from their slumbers.
Victoria is the Empress of India." "He rules over a protected state; but his powers seem to be almost unlimited.
The natives of the soil and all other outsiders were the once-born.
"The area in square miles is more than a million and a half, enough larger than your country to cover the State of Georgia;" and the speaker indulged in a cheerful smile.
A roaring sound attracted the visitors to another of the same kind, in which a monstrous tiger was floundering about, trying to escape the points that pierced him.
Every degree by meridians is equal to four minutes of clock-time.
It is dry here some years, and rather damp when they get eighty-eight inches.
The young millionaire walked by the side of the vehicle, while the others all followed, with their servants at a respectful distance.
It was dropped down upon its four legs, or feet, and Louis assisted her to the interior.
We clung to the life-line, which unhitched forward.
The lady wore a rich dress and a magnificent shawl, with a head-dress of gold and diamonds.
The first of the tigers was killed by Louis with a single shot, for he put the ball through the eye of the beast.
"But this is understood to be our last day in Bombay, though the limitation of time does not come from any suggestion of mine; and we must make the best use of what remains.
"North by east, sir," replied Mr.
When the meal was finished, the guests at their own request were shown over the ship; and they were not at all reserved in the expression of their admiration at the elegance with which she had been fitted up, and not less at the convenience of all the arrangements.
"I am only an amateur sailor," said his lordship; "but I was in command of the unfortunate vessel, which was a steam-yacht of small dimensions, in the service of the Indian government.
I am afraid this will be your experience in Benares.
Not far from this bazaar is the great mosque of the Mohammedans.
The general had been taken about the city and its vicinity by his host, and they were anxious to retain him longer in Bombay.
It was fitted up with a view to comfort rather than elegance, and the interior appeared as though it might be delightfully cool in the heat of summer.
As the steamer was headed to the eastward, the second cutter was the first to be hoisted up.
"I propose to arrange them as they were at the big dinner you gave at Aden." "And while you are about it you may arrange for nineteen places at the tables," replied the captain; but he did not explain who were to occupy the three he had added to the number.
"It is eight hundred and forty-one miles north-west of Calcutta, and one hundred and forty south-east of Delhi.
"No, sir; this is Sunday, and we keep the Sabbath in a reasonable manner, and the conference is usually omitted on this day, though when the subject is appropriate for the day the lecture is given.
They were eager to engage for a time in something more stirring than gazing at palaces, churches, temples, and other wonders of the great cities; and they were not diffident in the expression of their wishes when the commander called a meeting in Conference Hall to consider what ports the Guardian-Mother should visit next, as well as to inform the tourists in regard to the islands in the immediate vicinity.
He published 'The Precepts of Jesus,' accepting his morality, but denying his divinity and the truth of the miracles.
It was finally decided that nothing more should be said about expense; for his lordship declared that it was a very disagreeable subject to him.
"Thank you with all my heart, Louis.
One of the most prominent buildings is the fortress of Akbar, and you must know something of this sovereign in order to understand Agra.
Sir Modava and I have done our best, in the time allotted to us, to make you acquainted with India, and to make the time pass pleasantly with you.
"You can call it a brougham, or simply a carriage, if you prefer.
CHAPTER V THE TITLED GENTLEMEN OF THE TRAVANCORE The first and second cutters of the Guardian-Mother were struggling bravely with the huge billows, but not making very rapid progress, though the gale was in their favor.
They are bitterly opposed to the Hindus, and a serious riot had occurred not long before.
The commander had suggested that there was likely to be some change of cabin arrangements; for it was not in accordance with his ideas of right that the third officer should be admitted to the table, while the first and second were excluded; and Louis was very desirous that his friend Scott should remain in the cabin.
They came to a street like that called The Strand in Calcutta, and they drove the whole length of it.
"The present maharajah rules over the most extensive kingdom of any native prince.
Some small mutinies occurred in this arm of the service in the presidency.
"Those coolies would not use them," added the Hindu gentleman.
Scott?" asked the first officer.
"This is not a library of romances," said his lordship with a smile, as he took in the encyclopædias, books of travel, scientific treatises, and geographical works.
The bubble burst, even before it was fully inflated, and the business prosperity of Bombay collapsed.
Scarburn; but the States have not all the fast-growing cities of the world, wonderful as the increase has been in some of them.
Almost always they have a pyramidal roof, generally thatched, but rarely slated or tiled.
Blossom did as much for Felix.
Give way!" A receding wave carried the boat away from the side of the ship, precisely as Mr.
Another meeting was held in the evening, which was varied by some speaking on the part of the gentlemen, including the guests, Uncle Moses, Dr.
Those from the Blanche had noticed this fact, and were pulling in that direction.
"We'll git to Calcutty widout breakin' ahl the bones in our bodies." "This is vastly better than anything I expected to find here," replied Louis, as he pushed his crony over against the partition, and lay down at his side.
There were too many Bramins in the ranks, and they were fanatics; and biting off the cartridge brought their lips in contact with the grease, which was religious pollution to them.
It consists of five stories, becoming smaller as they ascend.
At the present time she had come within less than a quarter of a mile, as the sea was quite smooth.
I could mention a hundred places in India I should like to visit; but it is not practicable to do so," added the commander.
When the body is of brick or stone, they call them _pucka_ houses.
The party could see the brook.
"After fighting eight victorious battles, his little force was so reduced by sickness and fatigue that he was forced to retire to Cawnpore.
Go on!" said quite a majority of the party.
The masses in the country, not laborers, live on the land as owners or lessees.
The party were impatient to see the strange sights on shore; and they were ready at the gangway when the viscount, to whom the commander had abandoned the direction of the company, gave the word.
Belgrave." "That was just what I wished to know." "They were probably first called Bengalese houses, and the present name was corrupted out of the adjective." The party collected together on the seashore, for the viscount appeared to have something to say.
"Mavalipoor?" interrogated the driver, when the "Big Four" had seated themselves in the corners of the vehicle, which had a body like an omnibus for four, with a top like the dome of a small temple.
Louis and Felix had been trained in a shooting-gallery, and neither of them missed his aim; but the shooting had all been at short range.
Henderson, and the band along with us.
But the business of the forenoon was the great Sowari, or public procession; and the party were conveyed in carriages to the pavilion, from the veranda of which they were to see the spectacle.
There were six of them, very modestly dressed, only their arms and feet being bare.
"The proposition was received with considerable distrust by the besieged; but Nana swore before the general that he would faithfully observe all the terms of the capitulation, and it was finally accepted.
Another day finished Madras; and, though there was little to see, compared with the places they had visited before, Mrs.
They believed they had taken in the whole city.
The Sepoys marched to Delhi, where they were joined by the native troops and the mob.
Belgrave was left with their son, then eight years old; but the estate of her husband, with the property of her father, supported her comfortably.
Ferrolan, for the frankness with which you have spoken, and I shall assuredly profit by what you have said," added the commander.
It is considered by experts the finest piece of architecture in the fortress.
It is useful for other purposes; for the lac-insect feeds upon its leaves, and the women get a kind of caoutchouc from its sap, which they use as bandoline." "What in the world is bandoline, Mister?" asked Mrs.
A slip-noose is so arranged that the tiger thrusts his head through it in order to reach the meat with which the cord holding the tree is baited.
The spiriting away of his mother gave a new importance to the nautical fancy of the young man.
She passed and disappeared; but about the moment he lost sight of her, he thought he heard the report of a musket, or some other firearm, to the northward of the ship.
Belgrade appeared at the door.
The cotton cloth, calico, generally called print, gets its name from this city." Dinner was brought into the carriages; and the tourists slept in the afternoon, arriving at Calcutta in the evening.
Ferrolan gave the reporter an account of the disaster to the Travancore which he had written.
CHAPTER XV ARRIVAL OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER AT BOMBAY The coast of Bombay was in plain sight, the province, or state, whose capital has the same name.
Boulong, mounting the promenade, and giving the order to the quartermaster through the window.
Uncle Moses insisted that the baobab and the Indian banyan were literally the "biggest things" there; for the trunk of the former was ten feet in diameter, while the latter covered half a square mile of ground.
The boundaries of this vast country, established by nature for the most part, are the Bay of Bengal (now called a sea in the southern portion) on the south-east, and the Arabian Sea on the south-west.
Boulong, with his boat's crew, had gone to the starboard quarter, where the first cutter was swung in on her davits.
"That is the statue of Lord William Cavendish Bentinck, the first governor-general of India; and many important events dated from his time, for he suppressed the suttee and thugging." "Thugging?" repeated the lady interrogatively.
"If the ship were here I would lend you the barge with eight rowers, to enable you to see the sights from the river," suggested Captain Ringgold.
"Don't ye's do it; for sure, you will want it 'fore we get to Bombay." "Don't you see those men standing upon something, or clinging to whatever floats them?
Boulong to the wreck." "All the second cutters aft!" shouted the third officer from the window; and the crew of this boat rushed up the ladder to the promenade deck, and followed the life-line to the davits of the cutter.
"The educational institutions are progressive, and 400 newspapers are published in various languages, most of them with small circulations, 20,000 being the largest in India.
"I have received a hint from your worthy commander that I ought to give a comparison of my figures with those of the United States, and our population is about four times as great as that of your country.
The hero of the occasion spoke English as fluently as his father.
We assign subjects to them some time in advance, and they prepare themselves for the occasion.
He did hit him, and the ball passed through his head.
"Buddhism is quite as much a philosophy as a religion.
He had made a part of his ample fortune as a shipmaster, and had been an officer in the navy during the last half of the War of the Rebellion.
I supposed we were going to the bottom in a few minutes, and had my hands full, so that I had no time to look out for her, though I supposed she would come about and render assistance; but we did not hear from her again." "It is possible that she did so, and was unable to find you, for it was very dark, and the sea was very rough," suggested the commander.
He was a good shot, for he and Louis had both been thoroughly trained in a shooting-gallery in New York.
Though it was not an easy thing even for a thorough seaman to preserve his centre of gravity, the young officer made his way fore and aft with the aid of the life-lines which had been extended the evening before.
He had already heard several shots, and realized that his companions had found game of some kind.
They considered it for some time, and as it afforded them an opportunity to see something of native life it was decided to accept it.
The landlord had come in a carriage.
"It is all up with that craft!" added Twist, the other quartermaster.
He is a devoted student, speaks French fluently, and gets along very well with Spanish.
There were a great number of boats and small craft in sight, but none of them were near enough to be seen distinctly.
"It means, 'Behold the King of Kings, Khunderao Guicowar, whose army is invincible, whose courage is indomitable.'" "Is that in a Pickwickian sense?" asked Scott.
"Permit me to present to you Lord Tremlyn, a gentleman who came to India on semi-official business." "I am happy to know you, Lord Tremlyn," replied the commander; but the title did not appear to make a very profound impression upon him.
The party returned to their ocean home; and the commander spent the rest of the evening in telling his guests the story of General Noury, and especially of his wonderful reformation.
But you can form no idea of the depths of gratitude in the hearts of the three quartered in your cabin for the timely and skilful service you rendered in saving us from certain death.
But what is that man in the cart?
There were a number of men, very slightly clothed, in the ring, who seemed like the _chulos_ of the Spanish arena, though their functions could hardly be the same; and there were many openings in the walls through which they could escape, instead of leaping over the fence, as the bull-fighters do.
With the help of two coolies, all the game was carried to the steamer, where it was exhibited to the rest of the company.
You will see them late in the afternoon on the public roads, in elegant carriages, drawn by the finest horses, and attended by servants in rich liveries.
The ladies of the party had made the acquaintance of those of their own sex in the household, and the sports of the day had been discussed among them.
Wreck on the port beam!" yelled the lookout aloft.
After dinner the party assembled in a parlor provided for their use; and Lord Tremlyn gave a talk, for he objected to the formality of a lecture.
Hawkes called it "queer." The various edifices are now occupied by the civil and military officials.
Belgrave?" asked the commander, who always treated the owner with entire respect in the presence of others, though he called him by his given name when they were alone.
"These rich Hindus, while adhering to everything required by their religion, adopt English fashions, and revel in British luxuries.
Lord Ellenborough tried the experiment, and the stone broke into two pieces.
"The native flowers are not so rich as you would expect to find; but the white lilies of the water are as pretty as anywhere, and the flowering shrubs are beautiful.
After the commander had struck the gong to stop her, he gave the order to the second officer to lower the first cutter; and he left the pilot-house for this purpose.
Woolridge, who will speak to you of the fauna of India," said the commander.
"Oi see, it's the elephant, and ye's call him so bekase he carries his pack on his bachk; and 'pon me worrud that's the roight place to carry it." "I wonder if we are to have any hunting out here where we are going," suggested Scott.
The ladies would have been glad to hear Sir Modava again; but the commander invited the speakers, and kept his own counsels, so that the party did not know whom they were to hear first.
The Guicowar resorted to various expedients to retain his guests, with whom he was evidently sincerely pleased; but the commander was inflexible.
Consternation came upon the bubble capitalists, and financial ruin stared them and their dupes full in the face.
He removed to Calcutta; but his queen, with her son and brother, went to England, and endeavored to obtain redress for the real or supposed wrongs of the family, but without success.
Their attendants stopped outside the doors.
"Save that man first, for he is drowning!" he shouted in tones full of anxiety, if not positive suffering.
It would take too long to state the doctrines in detail of this sect, and you get an idea of what it must be from what I said of its founder.
Bargate, the old man-of-war's-man, was the cockswain, and his lordship gave the word to him to give way.
"So say we all of us!" cried Sir Modava.
"What time is dinner, Moro?" asked Scott.
The band had scattered after the noonday concert, and the party took the chairs in Conference Hall.
Now, if you take your seats in the carriages, we will proceed to the scene of the massacre." The company were conveyed to a Hindu temple on the shore, where the suttee had formerly been performed, and which was provided with a broad staircase leading down to the water.
They were immediately before one of the king's elephants, which now came in front of the veranda.
"It would be quite impossible for me to give the history of India in detail in the limited time at my command, especially as we are now approaching the land.
I have given you only a faint outline of what Buddhism is.
His physical condition improved considerably, though he never ceased to suffer from the effects of his wound.
The roof, pavement, pillars, and walls were of white marble, ornamented with carvings in the stone.
They are provided by the government, and are to be found in all the travelled regions of India.
"The ship will be there, and if you are homesick you can go on board of her." But the call for attention from Captain Ringgold interrupted the conversation, and Sir Modava had seated himself in front of the company to give one of his "talks." "Our route will be along the Ganges till we come to Luckieserai Junction, where the loop-line falls into the main line," the Hindu gentleman began.
Of the four servants only two attended upon them.
I couldn't overhaul her if I tried, and just now our business is to save those in the water," answered the third officer.
There are two crops a year in Ceylon, the first in March, the last in November.
"And must I pronounce that word?" "Not unless you wish to do so.
Lord Tremlyn had taken care of the engineers and other people of the wrecked steam-yacht, and had treated everybody in a subordinate capacity with princely liberality.
I have great reverence for the man, though I do not accept all his religious views." "Lord Tremlyn informed this company in regard to the divisions of caste, so that I think we have a tolerable idea of the matter," said Captain Ringgold, reading from a paper in his hand.
All of these last take a back seat compared with the tiger.
Indian names are very much mixed in regard to their spelling.
Captain Sharp, who was cruising in the Viking with his wife, while at Messina found the Pacha beset by robbers, and badly wounded.
"The money is for the Brahmin who has charge here.
To-day you will find many natives acting as clerks in the post-office, railway, and telegraph-offices, as well as in the courts in minor capacities.
The scene was the same as in others of the kind.
The nearest approaches to a million in India are Calcutta, 861,764, and Bombay, 821,764; but I dare say you are all quite tired of statistics by this time." "Not at all, Lord Tremlyn; as you present them they are quite interesting." said Mrs.
The government and the reformers have brought about this change of performance." "Do the English attend such shows?" asked Dr.
"I call the porter;" and he did so.
"The most prominent Indian sects are the Saïvas, or worshippers of Siva; the Vaïshnavas, who bow down to Vishnu under his several incarnations, like Krishna, whom you could not greatly respect; and the Jaïns, allied to the Buddhists, found mostly in the northern sections of India.
Windham?" "It is in connection with the customs, my Lord." "You will dispense with everything in that connection, for this is a yacht; and you will oblige me by not subjecting any person on board to any annoyance, Mr.
In your visit to Ceylon you will go to Candy, which will please those with a sweet tooth better than Kandy, as it is often spelled.
There were only seven hundred and fifty troops in the town; but Sir Henry Lawrence had done the best he could to fortify the Residency, ill adapted as it was for defensive works.
"The streets are very narrow here, and the houses are nearly all of wood; but they are different from any you have seen before, for they are peculiar to Goojerat, the state of which Baroda is the capital.
Lord Tremlyn had announced the nature of the entertainment as they entered the apartment, and most of the tourists had heard of the wonderful skill of Indian jugglers.
He had promised to visit the ship again, and take the party to all the noted places in the city.
A flight of one hundred stairs leads to the mosque, which the Hindus formerly ascended on their knees when they went to the worship of Vishnu.
In Delhi, quoted at 72°, the glass often indicates over 100°.
In 1780 he was commander-in-chief of the native army.
"The rain varies greatly in different regions.
Go aft, if you please, and see that both cutters are ready to be lowered into the water, Mr.
Looking out the windows again, they saw several elephants, all handsomely caparisoned, and with howdahs on their backs.
means rupees; and that makes it about twelve English shillings, or three dollars a day, which is not high." "There are no extras except for wines, liquors, and beer, which none of your people use," added the viscount.
In 'The King's Own,' after following the young fellow in his adventures all over the world, his life terminated just as he was reaching home, and I was disgusted.
CHAPTER XIV SIR HENRY HAVELOCK AND THE MUTINY The announcement that land was in sight produced some excitement, and the speaker good-naturedly paused to enable the company to see whatever was to be seen.
CHAPTER XVIII A SNAKY SPECTACLE IN BOMBAY On the way to the temple the carriages stopped at a horse bazaar, in which Mr.
The men were carrying great brass trays, piled up with flowers, as offerings for the various deities.
Belgrave, as soon as she learned the nature of the entertainment, promptly declined to be present at it, and the others were of the same mind.
Two or three palanquins were seen; but they were an old story, and they turned their attention to the architecture of the houses that lined the street.
The attentive officials of the court presently appeared with the carriages, and an invitation to the whole company to dine with the Guicowar again at his table.
It is not sugar-cane, but at some seasons a sweet juice flows from the joints, which is here called Indian honey.
Vishnu has a considerable number of forms, or incarnations, one of which is Krishna, the most human of them all." The curtain rose, and cut short the explanation.
"Can't you stop that hideous noise, Sir Modava?" "No more howling!" protested he in Hindu.
I have no doubt my young friends have used the bamboo when they went fishing; and the most expensive fly-rods are made from its material, as well as canes, and scores of other useful articles.
Captain Ringgold rose and bowed his thanks, and Lord Tremlyn spoke again:-- "It is very natural that you should desire to know something about the guests who have been so fortuitously cast into your kindly embrace, and especially in regard to the calamity which has made us the recipients of your generous hospitality; and Captain Ringgold gives us this opportunity to gratify your reasonable curiosity.
Blossom had nearly shaken herself to pieces during the ceremony.
Entering the enclosure, and walking along the avenue of cypress-trees, one obtains his first view of the great dome of the Taj.
A merchant-prince of this sect was noted as a philanthropist; and for the vast sums of money he gave for benevolent institutions, the Queen knighted him, as she did Sir Modava for his public service.
But there is hardly a perceptible difference in the pronunciation of highly trained speakers of one nation and the other.
Now all the strategetic points are under the control of our own soldiers; and at present they constitute nearly the whole of the artillery force of the country.
But they were not very fortunate in the enterprise, and finally they were all driven away by an officer.
Felix McGavonty, with Kilkenny blood in his veins, is firm in his belief that he ought not to be afraid of snakes, and does for India a little of what St.
While they were thus employed, Lord Tremlyn gave to each person a map of Calcutta, intimating that he should soon tell them something about the city; and they all began to study it, so as to form some idea of the place they were next to visit.
Grain for food is a penny for two pounds,--a cent a pound.
With great regret they left Kandy, and were soon in Colombo again.
"The snakes of India seem to be determined that you shall see them," said he.
The building was handsome in some of its details; but the professor said it was an "abomination," and Dr.
They spent the night there, pressing together, the heat terrible, enduring the pangs of suffocation.
"Next to Calcutta it is the largest city in India, and comes within 40,000 of that.
It was agreed among the hunters that none of the latter should be shot, for they were harmless animals.
One of them is said to have sheltered seven thousand people; but I never saw one as big as that." The party proceeded towards the caves, but had not gone far before they were arrested by the screams of some of the ladies, who were wandering in search of flowers.
It rises in Gahrwal, one of the Hill states, north-east of Delhi.
"Too many for one boat in a heavy sea," added Captain Ringgold.
I have no doubt we shall be very hospitably treated there, and that you will be introduced to many things that will interest you.
It is absolutely certain that they had never indulged in any actual "spooning;" for Louis had never proceeded far enough to call the fair maiden by her given name, without "Miss" before it, precisely as everybody else in the cabin did.
Decidedly it was a very inconvenient place to build a city; but the town formerly consisted of a number of villages, which have been united, after the fashion of some of your American cities.
The carriages were at the door of the hotel, and the company were hurriedly driven to the Apollo Bunder, where they found a steam-launch in waiting for them.
The descendant of the Great Mogul, who lived in the palace of his ancestors under British protection, was proclaimed emperor, and his empire re-established.
The Guicowar again enlarged upon the service the commander had rendered to India in saving the lives of two of his best friends, who had also been the friends of his country, and his only regret was that the Americans could not remain longer.
The serpent was a large one, though not equal in size to the one Felix had shot the day before.
They were next conveyed to the mosque of Jehanghir, built of red stone, and so much like a score of other mosques that they were not much interested in the building.
They tormented the poor creature till he was furious.
A few half-naked coolies and policemen were loitering about the place; but it is not convenient for a thief to carry off a bale of cotton on his back, and a bullock cart in this locality would excite suspicion.
"I have ordered carriages, and to-day we will take a general view of the city." This plan was agreeable to the party, and it was carried out.
"There's a cobra in here somewhere," said the officer, who was one of the king's huntsmen.
The cartman was in a hurry now, and he urged his humpbacked bullocks into a lively trot.
He had investigated Scoble's record, and eventually found Mrs.
He knows all about the mongoose, and seems to have an instinctive hatred of his little but mighty enemy.
"Are you sure of it, Mr.
There were sixteen in the party, and the "Big Four" made their way to the fore-sheets; the ladies were handed into the stern by the three guests, and the barge shoved off.
The captain made him third officer at Bermuda, the better to have his services as a detective.
But it is said to be well known that the Portuguese destroyed the original; and the substitute is a discolored bit of ivory, without the least resemblance to a human tooth.
We had no sails, but we promptly made use of an awning, and we succeeded in drawing it under the bottom, and covering the aperture." "That was precisely the right thing to do," said the commander.
The morality of the residents of this section could not be commended.
The ceremony at the water is very ancient." "The wives of Mussulmans here have more liberty than in most Eastern countries.
"Do they nurse lame tigers?" "They do not; it would not be quite safe to do so.
The scene, painted on canvas, was an Indian temple.
It was a strange country to the Americans; and they found something to look at all the time, though it was a wild and rugged region for the first two hours, with only a single town that was noticeable in that time.
He was at first intended for the law; but he followed the example of his brother, and entered the army a month after the battle of Waterloo.
I won't deny that I was considerably broken up when the Maud was sold; but now I am glad of it, for it has given me a position that I like better." "Now, Mr.
The Germans, the English, the Irish, the Scandinavians, the Italians, and other nationalities, in the process of assimilation, although very many of them have become as American as Americans themselves, take the manners and customs, the national peculiarities, of the fatherland with them.
Besides, they say the cobra does not come at you unless you meddle with him, like the rattlesnake.
"We read novels, if we read them at all, for the fun of it, with some incidental information in the right direction.
Belgrave, your owner?" "The plan was introduced principally on his account; but it has grown into an exercise for all the cabin party, and most of them are speakers as well as listeners; for it makes all of them feel a greater interest in the conferences," replied the commander.
He is an independent prince in the same sense that other rulers are in this country.
Blossom, when there was a pause as the singer finished.
On the way and in the cities the titled conductors continue their "talks" and lectures about the places visited, with as much of history as time would permit, including an epitome of those great events in India, the Mutiny of the Sepoys, the "Black Hole," and other events of the past.
I need not describe the cobra, for you will see no end of them about the streets of the cities in the hands of the snake-charmers.
Thanks to modern science, the sufferer from the bite of a cobra is generally cured if the right remedy is applied soon enough.
"We are all profoundly impressed by the kindness, the unbounded hospitality, which have been extended to us in our unfortunate, I may say our forlorn, condition; and I am sure that not one of us, from the amateur captain of the Travancore, to the coolies who were saved by the Blanche, will ever cease to bless the commander, the officers, the crew, and the passengers of the Guardian-Mother for the overwhelming kindness and care they have all bestowed upon us.
"In the small state of Travancore, where my friend Sir Modava was born, there are said to be four hundred and twenty different castes.
Scoble had come into the possession of the wealth of a brother who had recently died in Bermuda.
He gave the Hindu names of the apartments.
The train moved off, with handkerchiefs waving at every window, and with a profusion of gestures on the part of the magnificent host.
The shoes of all four were polished in time; and they were ready to begin their explorations of the city, though it was rather late in the day.
"We know just where Benares is now," Sir Modava proceeded.
This decision pleased the party, and at six the next morning the special started with them for the greatest city of India.
They alighted near the most southern point, and inspected a "bungalow," which they were politely invited to enter.
He butted against the wall, and then pounded the earth with his feet in the fury of his wrath.
Sage, you understand by this time that we have sixteen places to be taken at the table," said Captain Ringgold to the chief steward.
Scott's was Moro, Morris's was Mobarak, and Felix's was Balaya; but the last two were speedily abbreviated into "Mobby" and "Bally," to which the young Hindus offered no objection.
Before the collation was finished the ship had taken a pilot, and in due time the Guardian-Mother came to anchor at her last port in India proper.
He pursued his victim till the man was glad to save himself by dodging through one of the narrow doors in the wall, where the monster could not follow him.
The captain believed that he was entirely sincere; and though he had never encountered such extreme liberality before, he gave up the point.
It will be from 76° to 88° while you are here.
Louis stated that they wished to go to the Royal Hotel.
For miles along the shore the ghats are thronged at the first appearance of the orb of day, and there is a continuous murmur of voices.
You remember that when we saw the Sultan going to the mosque in Constantinople he rode at the head of the procession, and all the great officers of state went behind him; and that seems to be the fashion here." "But is he much of a king?" Mrs.
He responded with a kingly smile and a graceful wave of the hand.
The Caliph Omar conquered the Persians, and established Mohammedanism there, persecuting all who would not believe.
"About as near, though at Patna you will be about one hundred and fifty miles from Mount Everest, the highest peak on the earth." "I should like to go there," added Scott.
He drives Rukmini from him, and implores the yellow-painted god for forgiveness; and, as he is the preserver, it is granted.
Captain Ringgold gave this command; and when he did so, the top ceased to whirl, though, upsetting the bicycle theory, it kept its place on the stick.
Perhaps you have not yet heard of the Jains.
In 1867 we had one in the latter month which destroyed thirty thousand native houses; but you know they are built of bamboos and such stuff, and it does not take much of a breeze to demolish them.
"Agra, on the whole, is the handsomest city of Upper India, though of course there may be some difference of opinion in this matter," he began.
It is placed between two grates, which allow the vultures to tear off the flesh, but not to carry off the limbs.
He had removed his state garments, and was dressed in a suit of white linen.
"It became the great Mussulman capital; but one and another of its princes changed its location, till its ancient sites extend for thirty miles along the river, and its ruins, more extensive than even those of Rome, cover this range of territory.
"The native soldiers of Bengal were called Sepoys, and the name has been applied to all native troops.
They observed that the Guardian-Mother had reduced her speed.
They are from twenty to thirty feet high, and are sometimes a foot and a half through.
The remains are borne on open litters.
It is a muddy region, cut up by a network of streams; and it is full of swamps, morasses, and mud-holes.
Let me read a short extract from a book from your library:-- "'Among the lowest classes caste has degenerated into a fastidious tenacity of the rights and privileges of station.
The melody produced a strange effect upon the reptiles, for they began to wriggle and twist as they uncoiled themselves.
It was an act of submission.
But the river engineers here are constantly removing it; the course is kept open, and the Hoogly pilots are very skilful.
In all these disasters its population, which had been seven hundred thousand, dropped to ten thousand; but under British rule it recovered some of its former prosperity, and it is now about one hundred and seventy thousand." "If a man wants to build a house here he has only to dig for the material, for not far down he will find the stone and brick of the structures that crumbled into the earth after the death of the great emperor.
In any trial of strength he was more than the equal of any other member of the "Big Four," as the four young men berthing in the cabin called themselves, borrowing the name from a combination of railroads in the West.
"You can tie your purse-strings with a hard knot, Uncle Moses, for you will not have occasion to undo them again for a month," said Captain Ringgold.
"Are ye's thryin' to shake the screw out of her?" inquired the Milesian, who could talk as good English as his crony, the owner, but who occasionally made use of the brogue to prevent him from forgetting his mother tongue, as he put it, though he was born in the United States.
They found here the remains of ancient temples from one hundred and fifty to four hundred feet high; and one of them was built to contain the shrine of Gautama's tooth, and another for his collar-bone, both of which the English believe are frauds.
Forty thousand from home were on their voyage of 12,000 miles around the Cape of Good Hope to relieve the besieged garrisons.
Belgrave, and Louis with Miss Blanche.
They had brought their guns with them, and Louis informed the Hindu gentleman of their desire.
And didn't he dhrive all the schnakes and toads out of the ould counthree!
Scarburn, is a sort of temple, thirty-five feet square, and forty-five feet high, with wheels seven feet high.
His cap, of equally costly material, was a tall cylinder, with the top slanting down to the left side, as though it had been cut off.
In the largest boat was General Wheeler; and, by desperate rowing, it succeeded in getting away from the slaughter.
"Not a cobra; and I didn't want to meet any," replied Scott, disappointed at his luck.
When the commander went on shore he was attacked in the street by the Pacha and some of his followers; but the stalwart captain knocked him with a blow of his fist in a gutter filled with mud.
The captain called the attention of the party to the ghat as they receded from it, the broad flight of stairs being a rather wonderful sight to the strangers, though they had seen something of the kind before in Delhi and Cawnpore.
"What is that stockade for?" asked the commander, as soon as the steamer was moored to the shore.
He is certainly treating us very handsomely." "I think I could get along without quite so much style," said Mrs.
I think it was Mr.
Any money allusion grieves me, and the very thought of being paid almost breaks the heart of Sir Modava.
The man was a rascal, a villain to the very core of his being, though he had attained a position of considerable influence among the sporting gentry of New York and New Jersey, mainly for his skill as a jockey, and in the management of the great races.
Squire Scarburn, Louis's trustee, who was always called "Uncle Moses," was a passenger.
The enclosure is a mile and three-quarters in length by about one mile in depth from the river.
Belgrave, looking at her son.
At this point the commander came upon the promenade.
Belgrave by the hand, he conducted her into the house, the rest of the party forming a procession behind them.
Sharp took care of him for quite a time while he was recovering from his wound, and she made a deep impression upon him.
The city is on the north shore of the river, which has an easterly course in this portion of India, and the houses are packed in about as thickly as they can be.
THE FAREWELL TO CEYLON AND INDIA 367 * * * * * LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS "HE WAS DRESSED IN THE MOST MAGNIFICENT ROBES OF INDIA" _Frontispiece_ "A READY SEAMAN SEIZED HIM BY THE ARM" 45 "MISS BLANCHE WAS WALKING THE DECK WITH LOUIS AND SIR MODARA" 90 "THE YOUNG MILLIONAIRE WALKED BY THE SIDE OF THE VEHICLE" 155 "SNAKES!
"You will be a sea-monster before you get home.
The cook-shops in the street were instructive to them, and they watched the customers with interest; but, as they had attempted to eat in a Turkish restaurant in Constantinople, they were content with looking on.
Hawkes to the native officer with him.
The captain retired, closing the door of the room.
In ancient times gold-mines were worked in the south-west, and the currency consisted of this metal instead of silver, as at the present time; but the veins were exhausted, and the Mysore mines are all that is left of them.
The cavalry of the enemy waded into the river, and sabred those who attempted to escape by swimming.
The Boomtee River is as pretty as it is sinuous.
Scott did not vote." "You wish to vote in the negative, Mr.
"There is only one for each person of the company; for every one must have his servant.
"Taverns and small cafés are in full blast, the sounds of music are heard, and a grand revel is in progress.
But these boatmen were almost in a primitive condition.
Their chief had anticipated no such resistance, and he was impatient at the delay in finishing the butchery.
"By particular request of General Noury, in whose honor the guns were fired and the Blanche is dressed as you see her, Captain Sharp invites all the cabin party of the Guardian-Mother, including the guests, to dine on board of the Blanche on this happy occasion.
The 'South Sea Company' was bolstered up by the pledge of the duties on the imports from these far-off regions, and the shares sold like wild-fire, increasing in price in the most extraordinary manner.
"We leave that to your lordship's own judgment," added Captain Ringgold.
He is the viceroy of the crown, and is assisted by six members of the executive council, each of whom has his function in the affairs of the state; and the commander-in-chief of the army is _ex-officio_ a seventh member.
The ghat was at the western extremity of the crescent to which Sir Modava had alluded, and from this point the town looked like an amphitheatre.
FERROLAN'S EXPLANATION OF THE WRECK With the rising of the sun the gale had broken, and by the time the party in the cabin left the table, the north-east monsoon was soothing the ocean with its gentle blast.
Another put a stone in his mouth, and then began to blow out smoke and a cloud of sparks from his nose as well as his mouth.
Scott," said the captain, opening the door into the pilot-house, "inform all the company that we go on shore in half an hour; and you will go with them.
They held it till 1661, when it was ceded to England as a part of the dowry of the Infanta Catharine, who became queen of Charles II.
"What is your name, my boy?" he continued, turning to his servant.
The commander suggested that they ought to have visited it last, as the pie or pudding comes in after the fish or meats at Von Blonk Park.
With our sextants we find when the centre of the sun is on the celestial meridian corresponding to the terrestrial one; and at that instant it is noon where we are.
It is generally thought that a Christian convert cannot be restored to his caste if he should backslide; and the superstition of the low-class natives is a rhinoceros shield, which it is still difficult to penetrate; but in the end the Cross will come off conqueror, as it always has and always will.
"Certainly we do; we don't think anything at all about them." "But you are in danger all the time." "Of course it is possible that one may be bitten when a snake comes upon him unawares.
"One of the favorite divinities of the natives here is Kali, the wife of Siva, the goddess of murder.
"They were wicked, and I don't want to be one.
The homestead of his father, which had not been sold with the rest of his land, afforded the invalid a sufficient support; and he married Maud Nashwood, the only daughter of one of the small magnates of Von Blonk Park, which had now become a thriving town, occupied mainly by business men of New York.
Their luggage had already been sent to their apartments; and an hour later the company assembled in the grand salon, dressed to receive the Guicowar.
She had many suitors, but she finally married a handsome English horse-trainer, who called himself Wade Farrongate, though that was not his real name.
It had an abundance of cupolas with arabesque domes; but the edifice looked like a shell, for the veranda, with lofty columns supporting the roof, appeared to take up the greater portion of the enclosed space.
Bulls and cows are sacred beasts, and the Hindus never kill them for food." "Except Christianized natives, like myself," interpolated Sir Modava.
"Will your Lordship permit me to present to you and your friends my son Dinshaw, in whose honor I am making this feast?
At Fatehpur the rebels made a stand; but they broke before his little band, and he hastened on to his destination.
It is six hundred feet long, enclosed by a colonnade of arches, like a cloister.
The boat pulled six oars, and the cockswain made seven hands.
The nominal value of a _rupee_ is two shillings, about half a dollar of your money; but it is never worth that in gold, the standard of England in recent years.
Doubtless you will sail upon it, and learn more about it.
A dozen officers armed with rifles and lances were stationed about the walls of the arena; and then an iron-bound cage was drawn into the enclosure, which contained a monstrous tiger.
The exhibition concluded with a round dance, which was thought to be very pretty, perhaps because it was exceedingly lively.
Every rajah has a residence here, not permanent, but where he comes to celebrate the religious festivals.
They were spread over a broad country, and held forts, arsenals, and treasuries.
You will find the biggest tigers of India here, gentlemen." The hunters went on shore, and as they passed down the gangway they saw a couple of the crocodiles in the water.
"Sir Modava Rao and Dr.
The party were conducted to the grand and lofty apartment where the Nautch was to be given.
The walls were of bamboo and other tropical woods, and the roof was thatched with cocoanut leaves, which required poles to keep them in place.
"Who is the hero of the piece, Sir Modava?" asked Mr.
"I doubt if I could do it, and I should be glad to listen to the explanation," replied Louis, as they descended to the main cabin; for the new third officer was permitted to retain his place at the table as well as his state-room.
The angry sea was rapidly becoming good-natured again, though the waves were still high enough to give the ship an uneasy motion.
I was looking at the 'Year-Book' in your library, and I saw that the average in the States, including Alaska, is about 18 to the square mile; but the nine States in the north-east have 107.
Sandy Hook is in longitude 74°, or it is that number of degrees west of Greenwich.
He had a fine athletic form, and wore a short beard.
"It is the custom of the country.
But I do not propose to exhaust the subject, and now you may see for yourselves." His lordship and the Hindu gentleman, since their liberality had been whispered through the ship, were exceedingly popular, and both were warmly applauded whenever they opened their mouths.
It had a low dome and a pyramidal spire.
Sahib Perbut appeared at the door as soon as the vehicles stopped, and took his lordship by the hand, and each of the guests were presented to him as they alighted.
"We had better come down here when there is something going on." "You are right, Scott," replied Louis; "and I dare say Miss Blanche has had enough of the palanquin, or will have by the time we get back to the hotel, for we are more than a mile from it." "I don't think I like a palanquin as well as a carriage," replied the young lady.
"Benares is so holy, and the Ganges is so holy, that hundreds of thousands visit it as the Mussulmans visit Mecca.
Cassia is another species of cinnamon, and its oil is often substituted for the true oil; and very likely you buy it ground for the real thing." The experts explained some other plants, especially cinchona, one of the most valuable medicinal plants, from which Peruvian bark, quinine, and other drugs are made, in which the three doctors were much interested.
It appeared to be the only place in the vicinity where fresh water could be obtained.
His Highness gave a signal, at which the mahouts took their places on the necks of the big beasts, and the chains which secured the combatants were cast off.
As he became a little more accustomed to the game, he ceased to be diverted from his victim and confined his attention to only one.
The young hunter brought his rifle to his shoulder, and fired before the captain had time to say anything more.
The next morning Captain Ringgold obtained the ready assent of the two gentlemen to take part in the conference appointed for half-past nine, and later that of Dr.
"What has become of the Travancore?" "She was wrecked in the Arabian Sea in a collision, and went to the bottom after holding us up for a few hours.
The grounds were covered with great trees and gardens, in the midst of which was a palace, where they found the cavalry drawn up and presenting arms.
But dry up; the captain is going to say something." The commander gave the names of the three distinguished persons who were then in the cabin.
He was pointing out the country, and describing it, to this group of four.
Though the distance is less than a mile, the sand is so deep in the roadway that it requires several days to complete the journey.
Louis Belgrave, who declared that he represented the "Big Four," which puzzled the strangers, though he explained the term and where it came from.
Bangs was the signal officer, and he had his book open as soon as he saw that it was needed.
But all Americans speak the same language; and foreigners are compelled to learn English in order to get on at all, and it has become one of the bonds of your union." "In India there are not less than twenty-seven languages and dialects in use; and they indicate so many different kinds of people, for we can hardly call them nations, though in many respects they are such.
"He is regarded as the author of the most noted law-book among the Hindus; but there is so much that is mythical and contradictory said of him, that I will say nothing more about him; but he is authority among the Brahmins.
They had gone but a short distance farther before Khayrat stepped out from a tree which had concealed him.
But Sayad had opened his master's valise, placed his toilet articles on the bureau, and brushed his coat, which he had taken off.
"If Krishna was a divinity, or even an incarnation of one, he is a very bad representation of the piety and morality of the gods.
About Benares and Patna the average is about double these figures.
The affair was well enough as a love-story, but the conclusion looked like a pleasant satire on those authors who insist that their tales and novels shall have an agreeable ending;" and the professor indulged in a hearty laugh as he recalled the manner in which Satyavama had been brought back to life by the divinity in yellow paint.
CHAPTER XXI JUGGERNAUT AND JUGGLERS The next day was Sunday, and none of the party appeared in the parlor till quite late; not because it was the Sabbath, but because they were all very tired, even the four lively boys, who had done more sightseeing than the rest of the tourists.
This city has now a population of two hundred and seventy-three thousand, which makes it the fifth city in size in India.
"I suppose you wish to know something about the places you visit, ladies and gentlemen," said Lord Tremlyn, rising before them, and bowing at the applause with which he was heartily greeted.
I was just on the point of stepping on a cobra when Dinky attacked the snake and killed him after a fight," added Khayrat.
The Hindus finally crushed down the basket till it was almost flat, and it did not look as though there was any space in it for a kitten, much less an eight-year-old boy.
"I studied it with reference to this voyage, and I found a paragraph which interested me.
Sometimes the bore is twelve feet high, though not much more than half that generally." "What are the prices at a hotel like this one, Lord Tremlyn?" asked Dr.
He and his Indian associate were both multi-millionaires, with fortunes inherited from their ancestors and other relatives; and unitedly they had placed a large sum of money in the hands of the captains of the two steamers, to be equitably distributed among their ships' companies.
When this one seemed to have exhausted her material, another advanced to the front, and proceeded to exhibit her variety of gestures and postures, which were but slightly different from those of the first one, though she went through the movements of a snake-charmer.
Woolridge, who was an epicure.
"Our honored guests are expected and requested to vote; for we could not think of leaving them alone on board of the ship.
There are no dwellings within this territory, which is consecrated to trade and commerce; and both Europeans and natives hasten at the early closing hour to their homes at Colaba, the Esplanade, Mazagon, Malabar Hill, and Breach Candy, the latter on the seashore.
There was a thundering roar of escaping steam at times, and all of them had "turned out" to ascertain the cause of the commotion.
The carriages then conveyed them to a Hindu temple.
"I was in the pilot-house at the time, though the weather was so thick that I could hardly make her out as she slipped off from our starboard bow, and went on her course." "Didn't she hail you, and offer to stand by you?" inquired the commander.
The flames rose high in the air, and the attendants fed the fire by throwing on oil.
The principal piece of sculpture is the marriage of Siva to the goddess Parvati; and it is identified as such, wholly or in part, because the woman stands on the right of the man, as no female is permitted to do except at the marriage ceremony.
But we have gone as far in this direction as we need go." The Sylph came about, and went back up the river, landing above the funeral pyres.
This interruption was heartily applauded by the Cupids, as the fat gentlemen had been called in Cairo, assisted by all the others.
The Parsees are an educated mercantile class, the great body of them being found in Bombay.
"The poppy is extensively cultivated in India; and the export tax in Calcutta amounts to six and a quarter millions, in Bombay, to three and a half millions, on the manufactured opium.
It is not called the Ganges till it has received the flow of two other rivers, a hundred and fifty miles or more from its lofty source.
"That was just what he did," replied Sir Modava, wondering what the boys and some of the others were laughing at.
Each of them has its name, generally Indian.
Hawkes said "Me too!" And no one cared to ascend to such a height.
Perhaps all of them wondered, for the captain's predictions before had been almost invariably verified; but not one of them spoke of his missing it in this instance.
Woolridge, "barbarous as it seems." "In 1828, or a little later, Lord William Cavendish, then Governor-General of Bengal, determined to abolish the custom, though he encountered the fiercest opposition from the natives, and even from many Europeans, who dreaded the effect of his action.
The boat passed beyond the fumes of the pyres, and came up to the ghat, at the request of Lord Tremlyn.
There was no particular shape to the structure, and certainly nothing of neatness or comeliness about it.
As the viscount had suggested, they were considerably fatigued after the long jaunt of the forenoon, though they were refreshed by the luncheon they had taken.
"What the dickens do we want of all these fellows?" asked Scott when they had been conducted to a room with four beds in it.
General Noury had sent word to Captain Sharp that he should continue with the party to Colombo, and that he could proceed at once to that port.
"But I am wandering from my subject.
But all the party, and no less the trio added to their number, had their sea-legs on, and no reasonable motion disturbed any of them.
When Louis recovered the stolen treasure of the jockey, he had applied to one of the principal losers by the crime, Mr.
He was the son of Houmayoun, whose mausoleum you visited at Delhi.
The eleven men floundering in the water where the wreck had disappeared under them were provided with life-preservers, it was now discovered, and their chances were somewhat less desperate than they were at first taken to be.
In his natural state, his bite is sure death unless a specific or antidote is soon applied.
The tiger was released from the cage at a signal from the king.
"Certainly; if you desire to do so.
The steamer started into a cut-off leading through to the Bay of Bengal, the polite captain explained.
For two days longer they looked about Delhi; and Lord Tremlyn pointed out to them the scenes of the massacre, which he had described on board of the Guardian-Mother.
She spoke English correctly and fluently, and the interview between them was exceedingly interesting to both sides.
"I know that some of your people are better Christians than some who bear the name," replied the Hindu gentleman politely.
If they approached the foothill of the Vindya Mountains, which he pointed out to them, they might find tigers.
The next person presented was Mr.
It has a very offensive odor, which gives it the rest of the name, from _foeditas_, meaning foul, filthy." The workmen who were operating the burning were nearly naked, begrimed by the sooty smoke, and looked like so many imps.
They are largely merchants and land-owners, and bear the highest reputation for honesty, industry, and as peaceful citizens.
As early as 1600 the English turned their attention in this direction.
Captain Sharp was on the platform of the gangway, and took every lady by the hand as he assisted her to disembark.
The avenues were wide, the houses neat and commodious, and the gardens laid out with English taste.
I will not give you any more statistics, for I fear you would not remember them." "Thank you, Sir Modava," added Mr.
A slight change, and the river was called the Hind, which is still the language of the natives, while the country around it is Hind, from which comes Hindu, and Hindustan; but these designations really belong to a province, though they are now given very generally to the whole peninsula," continued Sir Modava, turning to the enormous map which had been painted by Mr.
The binnacle was lighted, and he looked into it.
I believe that we all stand on the same level before our Maker; and whatever social distinctions prevail in our country, they do not exempt any Briton from being a gentleman and an honest man," replied Lord Tremlyn.
Around these stables were numerous cafés, and a collection of people of various nationalities were gathered in front and within them.
Peace and order have reigned since 1858, and it is not now believed that a rebellion is possible.
Business hours are from ten in the forenoon till four in the afternoon.
"Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that, with the limitations the excellent commander has put upon me, there is force in what he said about the dryness of the subject.
He was not alarmed for the safety of his ship, but he looked out for her very carefully in heavy weather.
"But it is hardly in the same sense that marriage takes place in England and America.
"I didn't hear the word; but it is all right, and tiffin it is after this time.
Something that passes for this mystic spirit is represented with four heads." "But is there not a new church or philosophy of recent date--I mean Brahmo Somaj?" inquired Dr.
You will visit all these localities, and it is not worth while to describe them minutely." "That looks like a cemetery," said Mr.
The walls are covered with gigantic figures in relief.
They were interested in the boys and girls, and Sayad told Louis and Felix all about them,--about their homes, their schools, their sports; and Moro did the same for Scott and Morris.
Taking the "live lord" by the arm, he conducted him to the seat next him on his right.
Just below the Apollo Bunder, where we landed, are the Grant buildings, or warehouses.
The company breakfasted with excellent appetites after the exercises of the morning; and then Lord Tremlyn conducted them to the large saloon where the Nautch had been given, and they were astonished to find that one end of it was occupied by no less than fourteen men, not one of whom was more than half clothed, though the tom-tom player had on a pair of short trousers.
It is a mass of white marble and red sandstone.
The commander, the professor, the surgeon, the young millionaire, and others who have hitherto given the "talks" and lectures for the instruction of the young people, and incidentally of the older ones also, find themselves almost entirely relieved from duty in this direction by those whom the ship's company have saved from inevitable death in the stormy billows of the Arabian Sea.
There are plenty of sheep and goats--so there are of hogs; but the higher of the middle class, like the Jews, regard them as unclean beasts, and would as soon take poison as eat the flesh of a pig.
"Plinty av thim, Musther McGavonty," replied Captain O'Flaherty, with a broad grin on his honest face.
"Steer small till you get the course, Bangs." The captain and the third officer remained on the promenade deck, still observing the persons on the wreck, who continued to shout and to discharge their firearms till they saw the head of the steamer slowly turned to the north, when they appeared to be satisfied that relief was at hand.
For the most part, the natives are bundled up in loose white cotton cloth, or what was originally white, which they twist about their bodies with a skill acquired by practice.
Cutting some pliable sticks, he dragged the serpents together, and passed a withe around them behind the hood, and started back for the rendezvous where they were to take the carriage.
Lahore was rather a disappointment to the tourists, though it would not have been if they had not spent some days in Bombay before visiting it.
"Akbar made Agra the capital of the Mogul Empire," said Sir Modava, as the carriage started.
That is a matter about which we must not be mean; and the other side take that view of it.
Ferrolan, who extended to them the compliment of an escort, and, incidentally, to the commander and his passengers.
"The former gets two and a half times the salary of your President.
The Pacha was repentant, for his vices were as contrary to the religion of Mohammed as to that of the New Testament.
"But you have awful cyclones here, an English lady told me last night," said Mrs.
The company returned to the hotel; and after dinner the Italian band gave a concert on the veranda, as they had done in every city where the tourists remained overnight, which called forth repeated rounds of applause from the citizens of Colombo.
All the officers work up the reckoning; and I did so with the others.
"I would for one," replied the doctor.
"There is the lighthouse." The commander had left his party as the steamer approached the entrance to the harbor, and had gone forward.
The last two acts were the most surprising; and the rest of the performance, though skilfully done, did not amount to much.
"To return to Havelock, great honors were bestowed upon him.
It was only last year that the French had a brush with Siam, and materially strengthened their position there; and it will not be a calamity when all these half-civilized nations are subjected to the progressive influences which prevail in India proper, in spite of all that is said about the greed for power on the part of the great nations of the world.
Is he a Grand Mogul?" "Hardly," replied Sir Modava, laughing.
The course was all right, though the ship yawed a good deal in the trough of the sea, the gale pelting her squarely on the beam.
Early rising is hardly a virtue in India; for he who sleeps after six in the morning loses the best part of the day, especially in the hot season.
Doubtless you wished to know the origin of the word, Mrs.
Gaskette had been busy during the vacation the ship's company had obtained at Bombay and Calcutta; had made several new maps, one of which was the shores of the Bay and Sea of Bengal from Calcutta to the southern point of Ceylon; and he had enlarged a small map of Ceylon, to be used when the ship arrived at Colombo, or sooner.
They have a long history which I have not time to review, but they have been prominent in the earlier affairs of India.
The Bengal Presidency includes the north-eastern part, from Afghanistan to Burma.
The Guardian-Mother was announced to sail the next day early in the afternoon.
They are sometimes free for the rooms, but the guest pays at a very low rate for his food.
"Where is that music, Mr.
"I warn you," said Sir Modava, as the carriages drove off, "that you will find little here to interest you, after visiting, as you have, the principal cities of India." "We are about tired of sight-seeing," added Mrs.
It is surmounted by a beautiful dome, and the roof bristles with the points of turrets and towers.
Felix McGavonty, the Milesian crony of Louis, had been brought up by the trustee, and had lived in his family.
They occupy important positions, and possess wealth and influence.
The revenue last year was £84,932,100, and the expenditures were £84,661,700.
Come; are you going down-stairs, fellows?" "There is a public sitting-room down-stairs, and we will find that first." The four servants followed them when they went down-stairs.
Though there is no state with that name, nearly the whole coast region south of the Godavery River retains this name.
They saw the bamboo on which the serpent had been, but the game could not be seen.
They fell in with the missionary from England, who told them a good deal about their work, and how interested they were in it, declaring that they could see the fruits of their labors, detailing a number of instances of conversions.
But he did not live to enjoy his rewards and honors, or even to see the end of the mutiny at which he struck the first heavy blows.
Woolridge, do you happen to remember the Italian name of Christopher Columbus, whose discovery of America you are to celebrate at Chicago this year?" "Cristoforo Colombo," replied Morris promptly.
After the meal the hunters prepared themselves for the sport in which they were to engage.
They once guarded the entrance to the temple of Krishna, in Goojerat; but in the tenth century they were carried off by Sultan Mahmoud, of Ghuzni, in Afghanistan.
"Now permit me to say in all sincerity, that if our acquaintance had begun when we set foot on the deck of your ship, and the noble conduct of the ship's company were entirely obliterated from our memories, we should feel as we do now," said Lord Tremlyn.
"You are very kind, Captain Ringgold, and I shall never cease to be grateful to you for the service you have rendered to me and my companions; for all of us would have perished when the wreck of our steamer went down, without the prompt assistance you rendered to us," said the principal personage of the party, who was still shivering under the influence of the chill he had received in the cold waters of the sea.
Meridians are imaginary great circles, and we are always on one of them.
India has a public debt of about £200,000,000, contracted for railways, canals, war, and other purposes.
"I thank God most earnestly that we have been able to save all your party.
The Nautch girls retired, and the "Nautch," as such an occasion is called, was ended.
The band played, and everybody seemed to be enjoying the happiest moment of his life.
He was a great conqueror; yet, what is not so common with the mighty rulers of the world, past or present, he was a wise and humane monarch, and governed his realm with wisdom and vigor.
The elephants were made to kneel down as when the party mounted them, and they descended by means of ladders.
The general had been invited, with Captain and Mrs.
"Sahib Dinshaw, I am very happy to make your acquaintance," replied his lordship, as he rose and took the hand of the young gentleman, whom he introduced to every member of his party.
Lowell Woolridge, then devoted to horse-racing and yachting, for advice in regard to the disposal of the plunder.
A number of dusty ancient manuscripts were exhibited, copies of the Koran, one in fine characters, said to have been dictated by Mohammed himself.
Each carriage contained but two compartments; but they were suites of rooms on a small scale.
The "Gospel Hymns" and other hymn and tune books were distributed.
High tides drive a vast body of water into the wide mouth; and, as the stream is not large enough to take it in, it piles it up into a ridge, which rolls up the river.
"Claude Martine was a Breton soldier who went with his regiment to Pondicherry, the principal French settlement in India, which has been tossed back and forth between the English, Dutch, and French like a shuttlecock, but has been in possession of my country since 1816.
Scott, you have put an old navigator into the shade, and I commend you for the care and skill with which you had prepared yourself for the voyage of the Maud to Bengal." "I protest that it was only an accident that I happened on that paragraph!" exclaimed Scott, blushing under his browned face.
"I can readily understand your desire to obtain the first view of India," said Lord Tremlyn.
The riches of the South Sea Islands, including South America, were most extravagantly estimated at that time, and the monopoly of the trade was secured by the company formed.
Satyavama, the wife, insists that her only crime was her love for her divine husband.
But that is only one in 14,361; and a single malignant disease has destroyed more than that in the same time.
You laid out your list of cities to be visited yourself, Captain, and generally very judiciously; but if I had made it out I should have omitted Patna.
Even at this early hour the ladies, old and young, were in the balconies, and they were much occupied in observing the latter.
"They believe that man should not injure any animal; and more than this, that human beings are bound to protect the lives and minister to the ills of all creatures, even those the most despised.
Sir Modava Rao had attracted to his side Mrs.
"What does this mean, Sir Modava?" asked Captain Ringgold.
Scott," added Miss Blanche, as she extended to him her delicate little hand.
"Havelock was very strict in his religious principles, and a rigid disciplinarian in the army.
On our left is the Government House, which we passed when we came in.
We got eight bells nearly an hour ago, and the bulletin must have been posted by this time." "It was posted some time ago.
I expect and hope to be with you for some time to come, and my companions and myself will do our best to inform you in regard to everything in which you may feel an interest." The viscount bowed very politely to his audience, and was hailed with all the enthusiasm which could be gathered up by a baker's dozen Americans.
The tree under which he sat when he reached this result was then called _Bodhidruma_, or the tree of intelligence; and the Buddhists believe the spot where it grew to be the centre of the earth.
Some handsome temples attracted their attention, but they were insignificant compared with what they had been taught to expect in the future.
Pious Hindus brought forward bowls of the milk of buffaloes, of which the serpents are very fond, and placed them on the ground.
The red banners, the blows from the whips, and the fizzing of the powder, did not affect him.
They appeared early in the morning, and after they had taken their coffee Louis and Felix took a long walk outside the palace walls.
Taking Rampart Row, they passed the university, the court-house, and other public buildings, into Esplanade Road, leading to their destination, about a mile from the landing.
Formerly we could not have come as far as we have without seeing hundreds of corpses floating on the surface.
But I think you need a rest by this time, and I will retire for a little while." The company applauded as usual, and then began to pace the promenade deck.
I think I must have sufficiently wearied you, ladies and gentlemen." "No!
"It says Heber in my book, but I don't know who he was." "Reginald Heber was an English clergyman and poet, born in 1783.
The "Big Four" had a compartment to themselves, with the two servants, Sayad and Moro, who proved to be such good fellows that the boys liked them very much.
"There is the dak-bungalow," said the Hindu gentleman as they passed a building of considerable size.
"The soldiers of the East India Company became the military force of the British crown when the government was assumed.
Though the railroad passed within fifty miles of Delhi, the train sped on its way to the north all night and nearly the whole of the next day, arriving at Lahore at five in the afternoon.
This gentleman said that the number of Christians in India had doubled within ten years.
"But they don't drive oxen in the United States with a pair of rope reins, as this fellow does," said Scott.
It is not prudent to go much nearer to the wreck, for the gale may drift us upon it." The second officer left the pilot-house, and found the crews all seated in their boats, with everything in readiness to obey the order to lower away; and he reported the fact to his superior.
The second time you put it you changed the question." "I changed it?" queried Louis.
"In the evening this grove is lighted up with colored lamps," said the viscount.
The performers were not willing to forego the rich reward expected; and a compromise was effected by which the tom-tom was to be used, but the howling was to cease.
"We shall join her there." The commander of the Blanche shook his head; and after some discussion he declined to join the tourists, and his wife would not go without him.
The parents and the captain regarded such a visit as a calamity, and the steamer made her way out of the harbor very early the next morning, towing the yacht.
"They are too near together to be distinguished separately.
They remained their week at Baroda.
Produced by Robert Shimmin, Rudy Ketterer and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.
A score of provocatives might be mentioned, but all of them would not explain it.
"You have an opportunity to see one of the sights of Bombay; but we shall be obliged to leave the carriages, for it is a great performance, and there will be a large crowd." They alighted at a convenient place, and moved towards the square.
His audience were all seated on the pavement, and they seemed to be giving excellent attention to the discourse.
Boulong, while we travelled to Lahore, Delhi, Cawnpore, Lucknow, Allahabad, Benares, and Calcutta by railway.
From the various beliefs he made up a kind of eclectic religion; but it was not a success outside of his palace.
It is a salt-water fish, abundant off this coast, where it is extensively taken, salted, and dried, to be sent to all parts of India." "It is elegant," said Mr.
The pilots are said to "pool their issues," and divide their fees.
"The wreck is going down, sir!" exclaimed Bangs with startling energy just before the second officer reached the door.
We have got a specimen brick of the principal cities; and a dozen specimens of the same thing don't amount to much." "But you haven't seen Calcutta yet, and that is the biggest toad in the puddle," said Felix.
Sharp, not because she is an English woman, but because she is a very worthy person," added his lordship.
"You are quite right, Professor," replied Sir Modava.
At half-past three in the afternoon the signal was given for the meeting in Conference Hall.
"Degrees of latitude are always the same for all practical purposes; but degrees of longitude are as-- 'Variable as the shade By the light quivering aspen made,'" continued the third officer, who was about to say "as a woman's mind;" but he concluded that it was not quite respectful to the lovely being before him.
The coolies were abundantly rewarded, and seemed to worship their visitors.
He could not have slept more than an hour, but he was as wideawake and active as ever before in his life.
The performers were seated on the floor of the room when the company took their places.
It was a beautiful building with three domes, in keeping with the Taj.
"You are quite right, my lord, and she has had a romantic history;" and before they retired he had told the whole of it.
Captain Ringgold began his speech, for which he had prepared himself, and reviewed the incidents which had occurred since the survivors of the Travancore had been taken from their perilous position.
Boulong will have me called if the storm gets any worse." The commander went to his cabin, and Scott walked aft to the compass abaft the mainmast.
The definition is 'a Hindu sovereign prince,' and that makes a king of him.
This is a day appointed to make prayers and offerings to the snakes, in order to conciliate them and to insure immunity from their bites.
"There is the lunch-bell; but I shall be very happy to explain the matter more fully later in the day, Miss Woolridge, unless you prefer that Louis should do it," suggested Scott.
Carriages were obtained, and before night they had visited the principal parts of the town, and even the cinnamon gardens, in which they were greatly interested; and some of the ladies told what it was good for, both as a spice and a medicine.
It is said to have been in the form of an elephant.
This head sometimes takes the place of the whole figure on contracts.
They are a religious sect, and are more influential and intelligent than most of the Hindus.
"Permit me to congratulate you also, Mr.
Can you make anything of its shape?
It was more than a launch; for its standing-room would seat the whole company, while an awning was spread over a portion of the upper deck, from which a full view of the shore could be obtained.
The potentate was profuse in his congratulations to the two gentlemen on their escape from death in the shipwreck, and this afforded Lord Tremlyn an opportunity to present Captain Ringgold as the commander of the steamer that had saved them.
It is regarded as a very attractive place.
"It was the good Father in heaven who sent your ship to our aid when we were perishing; but he works through human agencies, and I feel it to be a solemn duty to recognize my obligations to those so providentially sent to save us," replied his lordship, taking the hand of the commander with much feeling in his tone and manner.
Belgrave; and then all the rest of the party were presented to him by the viscount, and Mrs.
He retreated a proper distance, and then thrust the head of the creature beneath his turban, and continued to crowd him into it till nothing but his tail was in sight.
Both of them wore heavy gold bangles on their arms, but both were barefoot.
Patrick, and if he did not die too soon he would rid the world of all the snakes in it.
In order to wean him from his meditative tendency, his father, in order to cure him, and prevent him from forsaking his caste, married him to a beautiful princess, and introduced him to the splendid dissipation of a luxurious court.
"How hot is it, Louis?" asked his mother.
Their faces were swarthy, but none of them wore full beards.
Both of them had pleasing faces.
The guests wondered if this fierce brute was to be loosed in the arena, and they examined with interest into the safety of the situation.
Captain Ringgold and General Noury made fitting replies; and the party returned, escorted by a score of torch-bearers, to the "Garden of Pearls" as the summer palace in which they were lodged was called.
The streets are narrow and crooked.
The lowest is the child of a Brahmin mother and a Sudra father, though in Southern India the Pariah is still lower.
Ferrolan had retired to the library; for though they were very familiar with India and its people, they desired to freshen their memory among the books.
"But you need not fire, Mr.
The gates of Somnath, twelve feet high, were beautiful pieces of carving.
"It just occurs to me, Captain Sharp," said the commander of the Guardian-Mother, as the former was about to leave, "that there is no reason for your going to Surat, for we can take the general, Dr.
The regular passengers had seen the strangers as they came down to the promenade deck from the cutters.
The interior surpasses the exterior in magnificence, the ceiling, walls, and tombstones being a mass of mosaics.
A reign of speculation came here, and it was believed that Bombay would be the leading cotton mart of the world.
He saluted the commander and Mrs.
"Is there any place near the palace where we could find any game?" he inquired.
Captain Ringgold frowned as he looked out on the uneasy waves, for the squall appeared to be a surprise to him; but it proved to be more than a white squall, which may come out of a clear sky, while with a black one the sky is wholly or partly covered with dark clouds.
The party did not claim to have seen all there was of India; simply to have obtained "specimen bricks" of the principal cities, with a fair idea of the manners and customs of the people.
The cool months are November, December, January, and a part of February.
He wore a rich robe, reaching to his ankles, with a broad silk belt around his waist.
"Madras extends along the shore nine miles, and is thus exposed to the fury of the sea for this distance; for it is not on a river, like Calcutta, or a sheltered bay, like Bombay.
I hope none were lost before we made you out on the wreck." "Not one, Captain; and I join with you in reverent gratitude to Him who rules the sea in calm and storm, for our preservation from certain death, which would have been our fate, one and all, but for the care and skill with which you have worked out our salvation.
If it ever had that shape it has lost it." [Illustration: "'Snakes!' screamed Mrs.
Lord Tremlyn was equally eloquent in the acknowledgment of his obligations, and those of his friends, to the noble commander and his ship's company; and possibly he was a little extravagant in some things that he said, but that was excusable on such an occasion.
Haines, I.N., remarks that the sudden change of winds, termed by the Arabs _Belat_, and which blow with great violence for several days, are much dreaded; but what surprised me more than these land winds were the frequent and heavy gales from the S.S.W.
"We shall be exceedingly happy in your company, my Lord, as long as you are pleased to remain with us," added the commander.
Belgrave, as they returned to the road, which they call them all over the city, and not streets.
It is on the Coromandel coast, which is nearly the whole of the Madras Presidency.
"Starboard the helm, Bangs, and steer small!" said Captain Ringgold as soon as the officer returned with the information he had obtained.
Meerza." General Noury laughed at this title; for it sounded funny to him, applied to an Oriental, and the captain had forgotten the rest of the name.
The party had not supposed there was much of anything here to be seen except the memorials of the Mutiny; and for these alone they would not have missed seeing the historic locality.
I advise you all to give them a wide berth; for their bite is worse than their bark, like that of some men we know of.
After its suppression, one of the first reforms of the government was to change the proportion of the soldiers; and now they are as one European to two natives.
Then the sun-dried bones fall through into a receptacle, from which they are removed to a cavern in the earth." "How horrid!" exclaimed the ladies with one voice.
A large banana tree grew near it; a woman stood at one of the doors, staring with wonder at the strangers, and a couple of half-naked coolies were at work farther away.
Blossom scolded him for not running away when he saw the first one; but he declared he had to prove that a boy with Kilkenny blood in his veins was not afraid of snakes.
Dealers in wood for the combustion sell the article to the relatives.
McGavonty," replied the East Indian.
They saw here the sacred Bo-tree, of which they had before been informed.
Each façade has a lofty Saracenic arch, in which is an entrance.
It was surrounded by buildings; and on one side, behind a wall, was a vast area of elevated ground from which the people of the town could witness the scenes presented in the arena.
A Brahmin came out in front of the curtain, with some musicians, and set up an image of Ganesa, the god of wisdom; then he prayed this idol to enlighten the minds of the actors, and enable them to perform their parts well, which was certainly very untheatrical, the Americans thought, when Sir Modava had translated the substance of the invocation.
Of course, they could not speak a word of the language; and, however it may have been with other conductors of vehicles, this one did not know a word of English.
On the train by which they had come they proceeded to Agra.
The good people from Von Blonk Park were sorry they had not seen the Temple and Car of Juggernaut, though they had been fully described to them.
In the procession was a troop of camels, all dressed out in the style of the horses and elephants.
He asked to see Captain Ringgold, and he was called down from the upper deck.
At either end of the arena was chained a monster male elephant.
The tourists were up before this hour, and had coffee wherever they were.
After the singing of "Nearer, my God, to thee," the service closed; but the people were invited to keep their seats.
The first is Malabar Hill, and the other Cumballa Hill.
They got out of the carriages, and found themselves in a handsome square.
"You have me on the run." "You will find that the bulletin signed by the first officer gives the run as 330 miles; but the answer to your second question is 337 miles, about," added the third officer.
Of course you know that your Civil War produced a cotton famine in Europe; but it raised this city to the pinnacle of prosperity.
In some of the western parts it is only 30 inches, while it is hardly 15 on the southern shores of the Indus.
In a couple of hours he had half a dozen of his favorite game.
Then he held out the reptile to the visitors, and offered to sell his cane; but they recoiled, and the ladies were on the point of rushing from the room when Sir Modava ordered him off.
You asked me the second time for the run of to-day for the last twenty-four hours." "And that was what I asked you the first time," answered Louis.
Shares at a par of £100 were quoted at £550 in May, and £890 in June.
"You observe the large open enclosure at the right of your map of the city, the esplanade.
"This is Surat, a hundred and sixty miles north of Bombay, on the Tapti River, which you may spell with a double _e_ at the end if you prefer.
Sage, who was a Napoleon in his calling.
He was mounted alone on a huge elephant, magnificently caparisoned and adorned with the royal standard, a flag of cloth-of-gold, on a long staff.
"He was known as Akbar the Great, the Mogul emperor of India, and the greatest Asiatic monarch of modern times.
"Sir Modava told me there were eleven persons on board of the wreck.
In this compartment the traveller takes his servant, and often a cook, for the valet cannot meddle with culinary matters; and they sleep on the floor wherever they can find a place.
The Blanche had come within fifty yards of her consort, as the sea was quite smooth.
CHAPTER XIII LORD TREMLYN DISCOURSES MORE ABOUT INDIA The delightful weather of the forenoon charmed the party as they walked the deck.
"His lordship did all that it was possible for any man to do in such a case," interposed the chief engineer of the Travancore, who was seated on the platform.
The Bombay covers the greater part of the west coast.
The cockswain shoved off the stern of the boat, the oars dropped into the water, and the men gave way.
A group of _sapwallahs_, or serpent-charmers, each bearing a basket about fifteen inches in diameter at the bottom, but not more than ten at the top, each containing several cobras, marched into the centre of the crowd.
While the party were wondering at the skill of the performers, though many of them had seen most of the tricks at home, a boy about eight years old came into the room with a good-sized basket in his hands, which he placed on the floor as the men spread out into a semicircle.
It is certainly very original and very elaborate.
Sharp came in for a large share of the consideration of the visitors.
He has a small head and a sharp nose, and is something like a weasel.
The instruments played, the standards and the torches were waved; but the snakes continued their milk feast undisturbed.
The excursion was not intended as a mere shooting-party, Lord Tremlyn explained, but to enable the company to obtain a better view of Calcutta than they could get in any other manner.
More than fifty years ago he started an association which became the Brahmo Somaj, which is a living and working society still.
He glanced at the two cutters; but they were all right, and were steadily making their way to the locality of the wreck.
All manner of courtesies were exchanged, but finally the passengers were all on board of the Blanche and Guardian-Mother.
The ladies were interested; and another bird was shot, to enable them to see the operation of the saurians.
I don't sympathize with them, for I like roast pork when it is well brought up and kept clean.
After dinner several of the gentlemen sang songs, and the general gave one in Moroccan, which amused the party, though they could not understand a word of it.
"So she is," added the commander, as he observed her altered appearance for the first time; for he had been giving his whole attention to the lecture.
The government offers rewards for killing harmful animals, and thousands of snakes are destroyed every year." "Do you think it is right to kill them if God put them here for a good purpose, Sir Modava?" asked Mrs.
The live boys could not keep still, and they went out for a walk.
All boats run for the middle of the river, where the billow does not break against the shore.
A tree that passes for this one was discovered by a Chinese, still standing twelve hundred years after the death of the Buddha; and the bo-tree of Ceylon is regarded as its legitimate descendant.
They went to the Golden Temple of Amritsar in the afternoon, and were impressed with the beauty of its surroundings.
Sixteen _rupees_ make a gold _mohur_." "Those small pieces are about as insignificant as those of Egypt," suggested Mr.
"The rainy season comes in the middle of the summer, earlier or later, and ends in September.
Ferrolan have indulgently permitted me to call upon them for the instruction in regard to India which they are so abundantly competent to give us," continued the commander with a very pleasant smile upon his dignified countenance.
We have to pass through the Esplanade again to reach the Black Town, as it is called, where most of the natives reside; but we will go by a different road." In about half an hour the carriages passed through the densely populated region of the Hindus, and stopped at the hospital.
I call them grand classes, or castes, because they are divided into many sub-classes.
The vastness of the pile presented before them was bewildering, though they had seen so many immense structures that mere size did not now overwhelm them.
His lordship gave the chief juggler a handful of silver, and they left the hotel with a profusion of salaams; for they did not often make in a month what they got for an hour, the Hindu gentleman said.
They had something like washboards, laid on the bank of the stream, which they were hammering with all their might with the sheets, standing in the shallow water as they did so.
But even here they were more pleased on observing the loafers around the entrance and in the court in front of it.
The Tower of Silence, in which the Parsees expose their dead to be devoured by birds of prey, was pointed out to them.
The steamer cast off her fasts, and then the din was greater than ever.
One of the Hindu maharajahs proves to be an old friend of both of them, and the party reside a week at his court; and the time is given up to the study of manners and customs, as well as to hunting and the sports of the country.
"The laws are made, and the institutions of India are regulated, by Parliament; and the administration of law and justice is substantially the same as in the United Kingdom.
At this point adieus were exchanged, the Guardian-Mother went to sea, and the Cherub returned to Calcutta.
Blossom no longer trembled before him, and he was as jolly with the boys as though he had been one of them.
Khayrat invited the party to witness a battle between his mongoose and a couple of cobras his hunters had caught; and he killed them both, one at a time.
The Zend-Avesta is the sacred book of the sect, containing their religion and their philosophy.
"Captain Ringgold, I am your debtor for life;" and he proceeded to express his obligations more at length.
"The smaller boats sank, and others were set on fire.
God suffers sin and evil to remain in the world, though he could banish them by a wave of his mighty arm!
Behind the standard-bearer were two more elephants, each decked in all the splendor of the East; and mounted upon them were some of the great dignitaries of the court, over whom servants held highly fringed and ornamented umbrellas.
Scott," said Louis, grasping the hand of the new officer, though he had been duly consulted in regard to the appointment the day before.
CHAPTER XXIX THE WONDERFUL CITY OF DELHI The Mohammedans of Bombay whose acquaintance General Noury had made were wealthy and influential men; they had notified their friends in other cities of the coming of the distinguished Moroccan, and he had several invitations to make his home in Delhi with them.
But they could be seen in the distance, frolicking in the water; and they were so hilarious that their shouts could be heard on board of the Sylph, as the boat was called.
Sir Modava Rao, ladies and gentlemen." The Hindu gentleman was again received with vigorous and long-continued applause.
His Mussulman friends declared that he would be most cordially welcomed by all the people of their faith, especially if attended by such excellent Christian people; and they appeared to have none of the bigotry so often found among the followers of the Prophet.
He wears a tunic of scarlet velvet, which is covered with gold and diamonds.
The Guardian-Mother returned to New York after this successful voyage, though not till Captain Ringgold had obtained a strong hint that Scoble had a wife in England.
"Where did I see that name?" "In Paris," replied Louis.
Is it an orchestrion?" "Not at all; there are eight pieces of music on the promenade deck.
"Are there any snakes where we are going, Sir Modava?" asked Felix, before any one else had a chance to speak.
When the English conquered Afghanistan, Lord Ellenborough sent the gates to Agra; but some think they were not the gates of the temple, but of Mahmoud's tomb, for they were made of a wood that does not grow in India, and they are not of Hindu workmanship.
"I should say it was an ox-cart, so far as the team is concerned," said Scott.
Sharp, to join the party of her consort in the business of sight-seeing; and Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava had united with Captain Ringgold in the invitation.
He is five feet or more in length.
For a week he fought them, drove them from the intrenchments in which they had fortified themselves, and the mutiny was ended, as I related to you on board of your ship." The carriages were at the door as soon as the party had breakfasted.
The one the more distant has two hills on it.
"But I am in earnest," persisted the Milesian.
He has been travelling with Lord Tremlyn, to assist him in obtaining the information connected with his unofficial mission.
"I heard something like a shout coming from her, and in a moment she was beyond hailing-distance.
As fast as a bird dropped into the bayou he disappeared, and not one of them could be recovered.
At the southerly point they came to the village of Walkeshwar, whose pagoda-like towers they had seen from the ship, filled with residences, though not of the magnates of the city.
"The manufactures of silk, cotton, and metals are very important; for the soil is not very fertile, though cotton, rice, sugar, indigo, and all kinds of grains and fruits, are raised.
"One of them is on each side of the Guicowar, at the head of the cavalry troop.
The moment they entered the grounds they realized that the Hindu gentleman had worked a surprise upon them; for the yard was filled with monkeys, and the walls were covered with them.
It contained a fort, a signal-station, and a telegraph-office, though there is nothing in the shape of a village.
But I should prefer a _shigram_, if it only had a better name," replied she.
"I don't understand you, Mr.
He was as polite as a French dancing-master.
He suggested that a double sailcloth be hauled under the vessel.
It was said that these females had a decided taste for such fights, and possibly the sight of them stimulated the male combatants.
Belgrave, and he checked himself before he had "put his foot in it;" for Louis would have resented such a remark.
"My chief engineer was an experienced man, and I followed his counsels in everything," added the viscount.
"Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, is said to have visited Ceylon three times, and to have preached his doctrines here.
He was dressed in the most magnificent robes of India, covered with jewels in ornamental profusion.
"As a student in this college he wrote 'Palestine,' for which he obtained the prize; and it still holds a place in the literature of England.
Europe, Asia, and Australia are alive.
He sprang upon the neck of the cobra, placing his fore-paws on him, and then crushed his spine with his sharp teeth.
"The sight inspired the little band of heroes with renewed courage, and Havelock began his march upon Lucknow.
Within it is Fort William, which has existed nearly two hundred years.
They were driven to the cemetery, where they saw the grave of Lawrence, whose memorial is that "He tried to do his duty." In the Alum-Bagh, which means the Queen's Garden, was the grave of Havelock.
"The Ganges Canal, constructed in 1854, is 445 miles long, and is used for both navigation and irrigation.
That pagoda you see ahead of us with the bell tower and shining in gilt is the only temple the Buddhists have in Benares." "We are coming now to the Munikurnika Ghat.
six per day," the doctor read.
Sarah Blossom, as a companion.
The different kinds of vehicles attracted their attention first.
He was fascinated by the beauty of Miss Blanche, and his marked attentions excited the alarm of her father and mother, as well as of the commander.
"The driver is the lowest caste of laborers, who works for fivepence a day, and supports his family on it.
The music was all sacred, and nothing purely secular was permitted by the captain.
Blossom was sure the basket was not big enough to contain him, and wondered what had become of him.
Scott," said the first officer, as he went out on deck.
At the end of the elephant's tusks, which were sawed off square, were attached bouquets of rich feathers.
They were ushered into a large apartment, one side of which consisted of lofty arches, through which the display could be witnessed.
"But you speak English, for I have heard you do it; and I have about forgotten my native brogue." "If the boa is a snake, he is the fellow I want to see," replied Felix.
Gaskette, who usually went in that boat on important occasions, would have required to do it, the cutter was ready to be dropped into the water when the order was given.
In Trafalgar Square, in London, you may see the statue erected to him by the people of his native country.
"There are not many millionaires among the natives, and these smaller coins are mostly used among them.
The commander went to his private cabin, after he had visited the pilot-house, and made a diagram of the two tables, assigning places to each of the party and the guests, but leaving three of the end places vacant.
They increased their speed as they came nearer to each other.
"But they will not obtain it yet a while," added the commander.
In September General Outram arrived there with additional troops, and operations against Lucknow were renewed.
The north-east monsoons were what he had a right to expect; but the gale came up from the south south-west.
Immense mirrors reflected the brilliancy of a thousand lights; the floor was covered with the richest of carpets, the luxurious divans and sofas were overspread with the cloths of Cashmere; the elaborate richness of the costumes of the Oriental guests, and the army of servants manipulating _punkas_, or fans, formed a scene not unlike, while it out-rivalled, the grand _dénoûment_ of a fairy spectacle on the stage.
All the principal personages at the table made speeches, of which the Indian reporters, if any were present, have not given in their reports.
The party visited several other mosques and mausoleums; but nothing could compare with the Taj.
The various accounts differ considerably; but all the men were killed but four, two captains and two privates, who escaped by swimming down the river, and were protected by a rajah, who was afterwards pensioned for this service." "After the massacre of all the men, there remained one hundred and twenty-five women and children captured from the boats, who were confined in the town-house of the detested Nana, where they were fed upon the poorest food and subjected to many indignities.
Following the household troops, apparently acting as an escort, came the royal standard-bearer, a personage of decided importance in an Oriental pageant.
"I shall never cease to be grateful to Heaven for this interposition in my favor, and that of my companions; for all of us were in the very jaws of death." "I can understand your feelings, my Lord; but all my people, as well as myself, may soon require the same service we have rendered to others, and I desire to let what we have done be placed to our credit against the possible debt of the future," added the captain.
All these, and all the others, wore white turbans, picturesquely folded.
Near the esplanade they found the finest shops, and the ladies went into some of them to see the goods.
Lord Tremlyn had left his party to look at what was to be seen by themselves, and came forward to the pilot-house.
I am quite ready for the next item in your programme," replied the lady.
The mutiny extended over an area of 100,000 square miles, with a population of 40,000,000.
Captain Ringgold said nothing, but calmly surveyed the men who were now struggling in the water.
Statistical as the lecture had been, the viscount had made it interesting by softening the figures with his comparisons; and some of his points, even in regard to the States, were new to them, and especially in regard to the United Kingdom.
"The outskirts of the town contain a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, far more than the city itself," said the Hindu gentleman.
He is very useful about a house in destroying rats and other small nuisances." The mongoose ran along ahead of the boys while Louis told what he knew about him.
ARRIVAL OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER AT BOMBAY 138 CHAPTER XVI.
CHAPTER XXXVII THE FAREWELL TO CEYLON AND INDIA If the tourists had been in a safe place they would have been glad to see a cyclone on the shore of Madras, on Napier bridge for instance; and it would have been a grand spectacle to observe the great billows rolling in on the beach, breaking at a distance of a thousand feet from the land.
"But if they had a hand-truck, such as they use in the stores of our country, they could do their work with far less labor," suggested Scott.
The pilot came on board, and was inducted into the pilot-house.
After some stirring adventures which befell Louis, the new steam-yacht proceeded to Bermuda, where Scoble had wrecked his vessel on the reefs; but the object of the search and all the ship's company were saved.
We leave behind us our best wishes for the prosperity, health, and happiness of your Highness." The Guicowar declared that he should value the gift more than all the gold and gems that could have been gathered together, and he should always remember with delight the fairy who had presented them to him, and it would afford him the greatest pleasure to look in the future upon the faces of those whose presence at the palace he had so greatly enjoyed.
"Not as the commander of your ship would understand it, though I was in command of a Thames steamer, and fell into the same business when I came to India," replied the captain, laughing at the question.
There is a great deal of philosophy among many of the sects." "But what are the Buddhists?" inquired Dr.
In a two-wheeled cart drawn by a humped bullock were a couple of Hindu ladies, under a canopy supported by four poles.
"Which is the first cutter?" asked Lord Tremlyn, looking about him.
"Bargate, who pulls the stroke oar in the second cutter, has the rheumatism in his right arm, and is not fit to go in the boat," interposed Mr.
By its side is an iron column with contradictory stories about its origin.
The ship had slowed down, and the captain spoke to the pilot about a convenient anchorage.
"It would be a mercy to kill them, and thus put them out of misery," said Dr.
After that we shall go to the island of Elephanta." The live boys of the party were rather pleased with the spectacle, though they had had enough of it; while the ladies, whose flesh had been "crawling" at the uncanny sight, were glad to escape.
"Probably 90,000 soldiers, infantry and cavalry, were in a state of rebellion.
There was a crowd of shipping at anchor, and at the landing-stages and jetties.
"But what is it all about?" "It is the place for burning the dead, such as you saw in Bombay, but on a much larger scale," replied Sir Modava.
A PLEASANT DINNER-PARTY AT SEA 100 CHAPTER XII.
The party seated themselves in the vehicles, which were of English pattern; and they saw cabs and omnibuses in the vicinity.
Those in favor of accepting it will please raise the right hand, and keep it up till counted," continued the commander, who was in a merry mood for him.
"The 57,000,000 Mohammedans, of whom 23,658,000 are in Bengal, and over 6,000,000 in Bombay, are either descendants of emigrating Asiatics, or Hindus converted to that faith.
The party entered at the principal gate, and came to the guard-house, which was filled with British soldiers wearing straw helmets and short white coats.
This voyage is a college course for him." "Do your ladies take an interest in these lectures, Captain Ringgold?" "All of them, though I have assigned a subject to only one of them.
When it is noon at Greenwich, it is three o'clock at Aden, as you see in the diagram before you." "Three o'clock in the morning, Mr.
By the side of the man on the seat was a girl of sixteen or eighteen, and she was very pretty.
There was a great deal of variety in the construction of these appendages of the houses; and all of them were occupied by ladies, who wore no veils over their faces, though most of them were doubtless Mohammedans, and the yashmak had evidently gone out of fashion.
Belgrave, is he not?" interposed Lord Tremlyn.
They claimed to have experienced a second, or religious, birth, indicated by a certain cord with which they were invested at a particular age.
For half an hour they fed the animals, which were very tame, and made friends with them.
Canals and reservoirs for irrigation as well as navigation have been built in order to remove this evil.
They were conducted by Sir Modava to a square, which was thronged with natives.
Four groups of languages are spoken among the natives, and from these the original races that spoke them are traced out.
He is assisted by a council of ten or fifteen members." "The executive government, administered in India, is the governor-general in council.
"We will attend to the land now, and I will resume latter," said Lord Tremlyn, as he descended from the rostrum.
The tiger had advanced quietly to the centre of it, though with the royal mien of the "king of beasts," as he was here, his eyes like a couple of coals of fire.
Though Scott was only eighteen years old, he was an intuitive sailor, and had a good deal of experience for his years.
The company retired to the parlor, and the band played on the veranda for an hour longer.
The garrison marched out with their arms and baggage, and passed through the hordes of the besiegers to the river.
"Once a captain always a captain," replied Louis.
They were disciplined troops armed with European artillery and muskets, and supplied with ammunition.
All were greatly interested in the viscount's account of the mutiny; and he had suspended his narrative just where cunning writers of exciting stories place the "To be continued." "I had hardly finished what I had to say, or at least what I intended to say; for there are still a great many points upon which I have not touched, leaving them to be brought up as you proceed on your travels through this interesting country," said Lord Tremlyn.
You notice the rich standards and the torches, the trumpeters, and the girls playing on tom-toms and cymbals.
One kind has something like a pair of spectacles on the back of his hood, or it looks something like the eyes with which ladies fasten their dress.
"As you have already learned, Doctor, I am greatly interested in the educational feature of my ship," said Captain Ringgold, after they had conversed a while.
The presiding officer declared that it was a unanimous vote, and the invitation was accepted.
An old bald-headed Hindu, with a beard as white as snow, was a study to the boys; and perhaps it was fortunate that the subject of their remarks did not understand English, or there might have been another war in the Punjab.
"Do you serve your sick and disabled in that way?" asked the official.
The death of an uncle in India recruited his finances, and he returned to New York.
"The old woman who was accused of cruelty in skinning live eels, replied that she had been doing so all her life, and the eels must be used to it by this time.
The members of the party were unable to say enough in praise of the Taj, and no one seems to be in danger of exaggerating its beauty and its wonders.
When he began to have some doubt about the faith of his fathers, he went to Thibet to study Buddhism, where he was so outspoken that he offended the priests and others, and his religious belief brought upon him the enmity of his own family.
The company were astonished, and looked for an explanation.
They walked around the esplanade under the arches of the colonnade, or cloisters as some call them, and finally entered the mosque itself.
"But cyclones are rare here, except from the last of May and into June, and in October, November, and early in December; so that the port is not liable to more than two storms a year.
"When the Aryans, who came from Europe, and Asia farther north than India, obtained a foothold here, and established themselves, they looked down upon other people in the land, and called themselves the twice-born, or born again, as some modern sects have it.
"Of course we expected she would go down; but she did not for several hours.
His Highness had long desired to see a bull-fight, and he imported four of the finest Spanish bulls his agent could find.
He has a searching eye, and discovers a hidden bit of meat, a dead cat or other animal, and bolts it in the twinkling of an eye." The steamer continued on her course down the river, and in less than four hours arrived at Diamond Harbor.
There were carriages and servants, and officers as guides, in attendance.
Professor Giroud was a rather slender person; and from his wardrobe came the suit and other furnishings for the titled Hindu.
"In 1833 Parliament revoked all the trading privileges of the company; and their dividends to stockholders were then paid out of the taxes assessed on the people of India.
"Point de Galle, at the south-western extremity of the island, is a town of forty-seven thousand inhabitants, and has a good harbor in a sheltered bay.
At the end of a week in Calcutta, every day of which had been occupied to the pleasure and instruction of the tourists, Captain Ringgold insisted that they must remain no longer.
VARIOUS COMBATS IN THE GUICOWAR'S ARENA 256 CHAPTER XXVIII.
The great steam navigation companies are available to recruit this branch of the defence of the country.
The Great Imambara is considered the marvel of Lucknow, and should not be confounded with another in the citadel bearing the same general name.
But the British government has taken hold of this matter since the middle of the present century, and has made considerable progress towards the restoration of the forests.
The ladies did not make speeches; but they expressed their gratitude to his Highness in a less prominent manner for the kindness extended to them, and at the close of the entertainment Miss Blanche advanced to the king, and presented to him a package containing the photographs of the whole company, and that of General Noury, each with the autograph upon it.
I beg you not to allude to the matter again.
Against the head sea all the boats pulled back to the two steamers.
Felix and Morris had been the first to go on deck, and they had informed the others of the nature of the event which had caused the commotion on board.
They left the landaus at a point selected by Abbas-Meerza, from which an excellent view of the ancient structures could be obtained.
This gentleman had just invited him to visit a theatrical performance at a private house, such as a European can very rarely witness.
He led the way to the promenade, where he spread out a chart in the "Orient Guide," which had twenty-six diagrams of a clock, one at the foot of every fifteen degrees of longitude.
It bears a fruit of a rich scarlet color, which grows in couples from the stems of the leaves.
There is nothing very repulsive in the rite of burning the dead; though the visitors had some difficulty in keeping out of the reach of the foul smoke, which brought with it a disagreeable odor.
His handsome face, the expression of which was intensified by the fascinating smile that played upon his black eyes and around his finely moulded mouth, was not wasted upon the ladies, or even upon the gentlemen; and it was a considerable time before the plaudits of the company permitted him to speak; and he stood upon the rostrum bowing so sweetly that he was irresistible to the assembly.
He was dressed in the most richly ornamented garments, and he was an exceedingly pretty little fellow.
The baggage was sent to the hotel, and the carriage proceeded to the Residency, which had been occupied by the official of the British government when the province was under the native ruler.
Ferrolan has very unselfishly consented to make a martyr of himself in the treatment of one of these topics, though I hope another time to assign him something more to his mind.
The guests declared that they should be very glad to hear him; and he bowed, smiled, and proceeded with his remarks:-- "Fortunately I have not much to say, for it will consist mainly of the mention of the names of the principal animals in the fauna of India," he began.
Penn Sharp as a quartermaster, the only vacancy on board.
"Calcutta, by the last census, 1891, had a population of 861,764; but it is not so large as New York, Philadelphia, or Chicago; and London is the only larger city in the United Kingdom.
The drummer played a new tune, and sang in a low tone.
"What would you have said, Captain?" "The loop-line we call a branch, and we say connects with instead of falls into," replied the captain.
The king of Nagpore has the finest one, with one hundred stairs of white sandstone reaching down to the water.
Hurry up!" added the captain.
He sprang to his feet, and darted furiously at his enemy.
We do not wish to force ourselves upon you.
Both of them propose to volunteer to attend you in your travels in the peninsula, if agreeable to you." "We should be delighted to have such conductors, and I shall gladly pay all the expenses incurred," the commander declared, with an earnestness that attested his sincerity.
The monsters roared, and, with their trunks elevated, advanced to the affray.
Then appears the rival in her affections with Krishna, Rukmini, an imperious woman, and tells by what artifices she has conquered the weak husband.
Some say that this is Brahma, as the three symbols of the creator, preserver, and destroyer, forming what is sometimes named the Hindu trinity.
Captain Ringgold observed the boats with the most intense interest as they approached the unfortunate men in the water.
CHAPTER XXX THE MAGNIFICENT MAUSOLEUM OF AGRA Several hotels were available on the arrival of the travellers at Agra, and they were domiciled at Lawrie's.
The company embarked on the steam-yacht, which was large enough to make voyages to Madras and Ceylon.
CHAPTER XXVI THE MAGNIFICENT PROCESSION OF THE SOWARI Felix had to repeat his story, and he was regarded as quite a hero by the Americans, though Sir Modava and other natives thought but little of it.
They had brought their guns with them, and Felix was on the point of firing at him when Louis interposed.
A reasonable additional price is charged for accommodations in this luxurious style.
The sirens were beautiful, and sang very sweetly," added Scott jocosely.
She is forbidden to marry again, and is treated as though she was responsible for becoming a widow.
When an Englishman of birth or profession, which is held to confer gentility, refuses to associate with a tradesman or mechanic; or when members of a secret society exclude all others from their meetings; or when any other social distinction arises, it would present itself to the mind of the Hindu as a regulation of caste.' "It is a barrier to the progress of Christianity in many ways.
All were barefoot or in their stocking-feet except the Gruicowar, who occupied a bench, or platform, at one side.
The sleepers in the cabin had been aroused by the erratic movements of the steamer before daylight, especially by the change from rolling to pitching.
The street in the vicinity of the house was brilliantly illuminated, and it was covered over with an awning, from which no end of ornamental lamps were suspended.
Captain Ringgold remonstrated against this lavish gift to his own people.
They talked together for a few moments, when his Highness happened to see Sir Modava, and rushed to him, seizing him in a semi-embrace, clasping the Hindu with his right hand while the left encircled his shoulder.
On the shore they found Mr.
They could not trade and could not govern except under the control of Parliament.
It was a three-story brick house, not at all fit to be used as a fort.
"Then you would have been in time to see the sight of the day, for the appearance of the sun is the holy moment for the natives to plunge into the holy river.
Water is then thrown on the pyre, and a portion of the ashes cast into the sea.
But he does not meddle with the affairs of the state unless occasion requires." The houses the tourists passed were all of Indian style, and there were always towers and pagodas in sight.
But the tiger was not yet defeated.
I feel that I have added an excellent young officer to the number of my officers," added Captain Ringgold.
To say that the Americans were dazzled by the splendor of the scene would be to state it very mildly, for they were literally confounded and overwhelmed; and yet they had not seen the great feature of the spectacle, the Guicowar himself.
"I suppose he is as well off as some of your Grand Moguls; but I think you had better call it dollars instead of pounds," replied Mr.
They were kept in confinement about three weeks, when it was whispered among them that deliverance was at hand.
At the table Sir Modava passed around some photographs of the place, including the palace of the Maharajah, the Golden Kiosk, and the temples of the valley of Ambir.
Lord Tremlyn presided with Captain Ringgold on his right; and after the fine dinner had been disposed of the commander was the person called upon to respond to the first toast, "The Guardian-Mother and her Passengers." The name announced was received with the most tremendous applause, and "For he's a jolly good fellow!" was sung by Englishmen, assisted by the Americans, including the ladies.
They went into several shops, and were treated with the utmost politeness and attention.
"It is the largest city in this part of India with the exception of Lucknow, to which it stands next, or sixth among those of the country, having a population of 219,467.
At this moment Sahib Perbut came into the grand saloon leading a boy, who did not appear to be more than ten years old, by the hand.
A HOSPITAL FOR THE BRUTE CREATION 158 CHAPTER XVIII.
Bland, first officer of the Blanche," said the visitor, with all necessary nourishes.
"You's air afeered of the schnakes," rallied the Milesian.
Far ahead the light of the breaking day began to penetrate the gloomy black clouds.
You can see for yourselves that in a territory extending from the island paradise of Ceylon to the frozen regions of the highest mountain in the world, we have every variety of climate, and consequently about every production that grows on the surface of the earth.
"You shall see," replied Sir Modava.
The fanatical and blood-thirsty mob, far greater than the body of native soldiers, were eager to fall upon and slaughter all Europeans.
The ship went at full speed on her course; for the commander would not waste an instant while the lives of so many human beings depended upon his action.
A chemical expert pronounced it to be nothing but a charred bone, which had probably been filled with blood, and again subjected to the action of fire.
He was bitterly disappointed that his income was cut off, and it stirred up all the bad blood in his nature, and there was a good deal of it.
The barge, which was a large eight-oar boat, had been made ready to lower into the water, and the gangway had been rigged out.
It has a population of a hundred and ten thousand.
But the builder found that it gave a one-sided appearance to the view; and he erected the one on the east end, to balance the other and restore the proportions.
The native breeds of horses have been greatly improved under the direction of the horse-fancying Briton; but they are never used on the farm.
"Cast off the after fall, Stoody!" said he sharply to the cockswain; and the order was promptly obeyed.
Hawkes, Uncle Moses, Professor Giroud, and then by the three distinguished guests from the Travancore.
Then go to Surat in the steamer, and visit Baroda, and proceed by the ship to Kurrachee.
At the usual time the next day the company were assembled in Conference Hall; and when the commander announced that Lord Tremlyn would address them on the general subject, "The People of India," they manifested their interest by a liberal salvo of applause.
The tragedy of the 'Black Hole' followed." "I have heard of that, but I don't know what it means," said Mrs.
About a thousand are killed by tigers.
The medicine used in my case was the _Aristolochia Indica_.
"You will find here many public buildings and commercial structures which compare favorably with similar edifices in any city of the world; and we shall see them to-morrow forenoon.
"I don't quite understand your plan, Captain Ringgold," said Captain Sharp.
The next morning the travellers visited the Mosque of Pearls, where the ancient emperors came to perform their devotions.
About half an hour before the time for sailing a shore boat came up to the gangway, and a well-dressed gentleman with a swarthy face ascended the steps.
She was following the latter, and seemed to be of about equal speed, though no trial had been made between them.
"'Der reason vy ve calls our boy Hans is, dot is his name.'" "Well, that is precisely why we call that house a bungalow," added Sir Modava.
The British government rules India in the spirit of kindness and toleration, and interferes with the religious, or even political, institutions only so far as humanity and progressive civilization require.
They passed no end of temples; and all of them were small, though they were very pretty, what there were of them.
Perhaps 'From Greenland's icy mountains, From India's coral strand,' which you have sung this afternoon, is the widest-known of Bishop Heber's hymns; but will you indulge me if I ask you to sing another of them, which I find in the book I hold in my hand?-- 'Brightest and best of the sons of the morning, Dawn on our darkness, and lend us thine aid.'" The hymn was sung to Mozart's music by about twenty voices, and the effect was exceedingly agreeable.
He seated himself in an easy-chair, and took from his pocket a little book, to which he occasionally referred.
"How is the second cutter doing?" inquired Captain Ringgold.
His lordship sang "Oh that I had Wings!" and Mrs.
To the Hindus it is the most sacred city known to them.
But the fellow shook his head, and declined to obey.
At the head of the gangway on deck stood General Noury, who received the ladies, all of whom he had met before; and the distinguished guests were presented to him, after which he shook hands with every other member of the party.
The guides were invited to dine with them, and the evening was more cheerful than the afternoon had been.
When the party entered they found the king seated in an apartment open to the air of heaven on two sides.
He had been a skilful detective most of his life, and failing health alone compelled him to go to sea; and he had been a sailor in his early years, attaining the position of first officer of a large Indiaman.
The party found enough to occupy their attention till the ship came to anchor, with its brass band in full blast, off the public buildings.
Just before he had been created Lord Clyde.
At the hotel the wonderful success of the hunters was the theme of the other guests; but the place was regarded as a dangerous one, though that would not deter Englishmen from visiting it if it were not so difficult of access, for a government steam-yacht was not available for many parties.
"We are now going to Lucknow this afternoon; but it is only forty-five miles," said Sir Modava.
The sides present a vast display of pointed arches, and its shape on the ground is quite irregular.
At sunset the idols are thrown into the river, and the festival terminates with a grand frolic on shore, with fireworks, in which many Europeans take part; and the river is thronged with boats decorated with many-colored lanterns." The party spent two days more at Benares, and visited temples, mosques, and many places of interest.
He was induced to accept the commander's offer of a passage around the world for his services as the surgeon of the ship.
The duties and relations of the four castes are defined and stated in the laws of Manu." "We have not been introduced to him," suggested Mrs.
There was a great crowd of _sapwallahs_ in charge of them, and none of them were permitted to escape.
"That is the right thing for her to do, if she don't come too near us." "She is at a safe distance, sir, and her starboard quarter-boat is manned and ready to drop into the water." "Captain Sharp will do the right thing at the right time," replied the commander, whose gaze was riveted upon the struggling party in the water.
"But it left its lesson behind it; and since that time Bombay has patiently and painfully regained its former solid prosperity.
There are sixteen kinds of bats here, and all your base-ball clubs could be supplied from the stock; and there is a flying fox, which might amuse you if you could catch one.
The ceremony was finished in due time, though it was rather a long time.
Both of these gentlemen are making this voyage to regain their health, injured by over-work." "You are fortunate in having such men on board," added his lordship.
The native women did not attend, for they never took part in any public affair.
"But I have seen four of them in my little walk, and I'm not doing any running just now," said Felix triumphantly.
The Hindus under the umbrellas are Brahmins, who collect the fees for bathing from the steps; and they sell certificates of purification, indulgences, and amulets." The boat continued on her course, and they did not wait to see the bathing, though the heads of the swimmers were soon in view.
"For three weeks they held out against the overwhelming force that was thirsting for their blood.
Men of all castes have risen to exalted positions, just as poor men, with none of the advantages of high birth, have in England.
Then a crowd of gods and goddesses rushed on the stage, and each of them made a long speech to the devotee-god, which Sir Modava had not time to render into English, even with the aid of Sahib Govind.
"Those of our company who are disposed to read novels supply themselves with that kind of literature.
The first person to be assisted to the deck was Lord Tremlyn, though those who had saved him were not yet aware of his quality.
"Like many others of the Indian monarchs, he desired to immortalize his name by erecting a monument in his own honor; and he offered a prize for the competition of all the architects of India, for one that would surpass all others.
"If this young man had been in the situation of Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava when you picked them up, I am very sure I should not have grumbled if I had been called upon to disburse a sum equal to what this trip will cost them, if they, or any one, had picked him up.
They are very sensitive, and are very likely to misinterpret the expression and the actions of a stranger; your laugh might be offensive, leading them to believe you were sneering, or making fun of them, as we should call it." "Then I will be very circumspect," replied the lady.
He got a position in the tree, and lost no time in attacking the enemy.
"There does not seem to be any aristocratic section, unless that by the esplanade is such." They saw plenty of mosques, temples, and churches, some of the latter very fine.
"The color of the cobra varies from pale yellow to dark olive.
They paused to look at one of them.
Abbas-Meerza was a very companionable person, and made the acquaintance of every one in the company.
Even the Bank of Bombay, believed to be as solid as the 'Old Lady' of Threadneedle Street, had to suspend, and the commercial distress was frightful.
They remained at Kandy three days, and were sorry the commander would not allow them to stay longer, for it was the most delightful region they had yet visited.
Cacao, which is the name of the chocolate-tree, while cocoa is the name of the product, is cultivated to a considerable extent; so are cinchona, cardamoms, and various spices; though Bishop Heber's lines-- 'What though the spicy breezes Blow soft o'er Ceylon's isle,' are not applicable to the island as formerly.
The fishing-boats were Oriental, and nothing new to the tourists; but the men in them were swarthy-looking fellows, not abundantly provided with clothing.
"Those who give a personal origin to the system, now said to be the religion of one-third of the human race, begin with Prince Siddhartha, a young man disposed to be an ascetic, and inclined to retire from the world.
One of you is enough for all of us." "No, Sahib; no _khidmutgar_ waits on more than one gentleman," replied Louis's man, with a cheerful smile, displaying a wealth of white teeth which would have been creditable to an Alabama negro.
The manufactures, both in metal and fibre, have always been remarkably fine, and the quality is still kept up.
The cannon-shot of the besiegers wrecked the building, and many of its defenders, including Sir Henry Lawrence, the commander, perished in the fight.
Boulong, lower the gangway, and have the barge ready." "Perhaps you have arranged a programme yourself already," suggested the new host of the party.
He was determined to convince Scott that he was not afraid of snakes.
Without any explanation of what was to follow, the captain introduced Lord Tremlyn.
At the request of Lord Tremlyn, they were driven first to the office of the lieutenant-governor, to whom they were presented.
"It was a custom in India before the time of Christ.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr.
The commander and Scott appeared immediately; and with the increased daylight they discovered several men clinging to what appeared to be a wreck.
Morris came in with a monkey, which the officers would not have permitted him to kill if they had been near him.
"Formerly no person not a Mussulman was permitted to enter this mosque," said Sir Modava, while the general and his host were engaged in their devotions; "but for more than thirty years it has been open to all.
It was an easy run, from Diamond Harbor to Madras in two days and a half, for the Guardian-Mother.
"My two voyages in the Arabian Sea took me twenty degrees east of this point, and therefore I had nothing but quiet water.
A flight of broad stairs led to the principal floor, over which was extended what looked like an imitation of the Rialto bridge in Venice, with a small temple under the middle arch and at the head of the stairs.
It had begun to be what the ladies called rough some hours before; and with them Captain Ringgold's reputation as a prophet was in peril, for he had predicted a smooth sea all the way to Bombay.
"He is doing us great honor in coming out in this manner to welcome us." As soon as he discovered the party, the ruler dismounted nimbly from his noble steed, and, attended by some high officers, advanced to meet them.
"Thank you, madam," replied the speaker, bowing low, with his hand on his heart.
"We have all been delighted with the manner in which we have been entertained on board of the Guardian-Mother; and without regard to our rescue from the very jaws of death, I declare, upon my honor as a gentleman, that you have won our hearts,--you, Mr.
He went to England in 1831, and was received with great respect and friendliness.
"He seems like a kitten, he is so tame." "He is my pet, and I am very fond of him, for I think he saved my life once.
After the performance had continued about a quarter of an hour there was a pause, and the dancers retreated to a corner of the room, seating themselves again on the floor.
The climate of the island is simply magnificent; the average heat in Colombo on the high lands never exceeds 70°.
"I have not the honor to be acquainted with Captain Ringgold, but I beg to introduce myself as Mr.
It is enough to say that all the wrecked party were saved, without giving the details of the picking up of each of them.
"We do not," interposed the captain.
"Hind, or Hindustan, is the territory near the Jumna and Ganges Rivers, of which more will be said later," as he pointed out these great watercourses, and then drew his pointer around Sind, now called Sinde, on the border of Beloochistan.
"According to the tradition, this hair really came from the beard of Mohammed," said Sir Modava.
We have all the flowers of Europe, and probably of America; but they are not indigenous to the soil, though they thrive very well.
"I don't think this is the right time to explore this region," suggested Scott.
Captain Ringgold wondered what became of them, and the Indian gentlemen only laughed at his perplexity.
But this air had all escaped as the Guardian-mother approached us, and with no warning she went to the bottom.
The dinner was somewhat Oriental, but it was as elegant as it was substantial.
You will ride out to Lake Colombo, and visit the cinnamon gardens there.
I am not at all sure they wouldn't gladly pay the expenses of your party as well as their own; but I am not authorized to speak on this point.
At the time set Madras was in sight, and a little later the surf was seen rolling in on the shore.
His sahib was proceeding to give him a lecture in rather energetic terms, when Sir Modava interposed, and explained that the servant had religious scruples, knowing that the stamp had been wet on the tongues of the senders, which made it unclean to him, and he could not touch it.
Here the natives are burned to ashes.
"Very well; but I prefer to settle the account with his Highness himself," added the commander, as he touched an electric bell, which brought Sparks to the boudoir into which they had gone.
"All we expect is to get a fair idea of a city; and I think we have done that here, especially as we shall see the same things, as far as manners and customs are concerned, many times before we finally take our leave of the country at Colombo in Ceylon." "While we are quietly seated here, I should like to ask for some information in regard to Juggernaut," said Uncle Moses.
A SUCCESSFUL HUNT IN THE SUNDERBUNDS 339 CHAPTER XXXVI.
Then, at the command of his master, he wheeled, and the rider gave the big beast a smart punch with his lance.
"If you wish to see mosques, temples, pagodas"--the viscount began.
I suppose you know which side that is." "Of course we do," laughed Mrs.
But the ladies know more about pearls than I do, and I will say no more about them.
They talked vigorously to the cartman, and all of them pointed back to the city, and yelled "Madras!" "Mavalipoor!" screamed the driver, pointing with equal energy in the direction the cart was headed.
They found the bungalow surrounded and partly filled, on their return, by venders of relics, curiosities, and other wares, anxious to find customers for their goods.
I am no orator, like my brother, the commander of the Guardian-Mother, and I shall call upon my friend and secretary, who has been travelling with me in India for his health, to give you the desired information." Though it was Sunday, even the commander joined in the applause that greeted the doctor when he mounted the rostrum.
If gone for years, he will find the house and the field of his fathers undisturbed, of which he may take possession.
"It is the _bummaloti_, sometimes called the Bombay duck, something like both the salmon and the trout.
A dozen years ago only 3,515 pounds were raised; ten years later over 12,000,000 pounds of tea was the crop; and this year it is still greater.
"But I did not suppose it grew on a tree; I had an idea it was a root." "No; it is the inner bark of the trees before you.
Louis assisted his mother first, and then Miss Blanche.
No person was in the ring, or within reach of the savage animal.
The Italian band played during the repast, and the Guicowar declared that it was the finest music he had ever heard.
"After the death of Akbar his successors reigned in Delhi.
The commander made no further objections to the matter of expense, and the invitation was promptly accepted.
In 1803 he lived in Benares, and held a public office at one time.
Sir Modava directed the drivers, and when he said Dourga Khound no one knew what he was to see next.
He is the most powerful of the Indian rulers, and one of the most hospitable.
It was the same crew with which the first officer had boarded the Blanche when she was in imminent peril of going down, and he had entire confidence both in their will and their muscle.
She had been Uncle Moses's housekeeper.
Another set a lot of small swords circling in the air, till he had ten of them buzzing about his head.
Felix did not care for tigers; he was looking for snakes, and they came to the brook to drink.
The interpreters finished their explanations, and the company retired with the salaams of the crowd.
& O.' for short, touch here.
They were all stretched out on clean straw.
Morris, the monkey you shot will be decently buried," said the Hindu gentleman.
They accomplished their purpose, fostered by the government, raised and borrowed money, and in the course of time had an army and a navy, and ruled the country.
These were more than he had bargained for; and, believing that discretion was the better part of valor, he climbed a tree in which he saw a convenient resting-place.
A venerable Moollah was expounding the Koran to a group of true believers.
They seemed to be all able to swim; but it was a closer call than they had had before.
The best of them were valued at from six hundred to twelve hundred dollars; and the cheapest were hardly less than two hundred dollars.
The Kaiser Bagh, or Cæsar's Garden, contains some of the principal sights of the city, which the viscount pointed out and described.
There are plenty of landaus in Madras at three rupees a day; and the dak, as the cart is called, and palanquins are becoming things of the past.
It was the usual time for singing, and the trio from the Travancore contributed largely to the volume of tone on the occasion.
But the Hindu gentleman explained that they could bite, though they could not kill, after their poison fangs had been removed.
You are at home on the sea as I am in Bombay." "You have put it in such a way that I cannot refuse to accept," replied the commander, laughing at the corner in which he was placed.
Blossom looked rather wildly at the satellite who was to attend to her wants; but her good friend told her to say nothing, and she submitted without a word.
But the best informed claim that the figure represents Siva, the destroyer of the triad of gods.
But before he had time to discharge his piece at the monster, for he looked as though he was six feet long, Felix heard a rustling in the bushes at his left, and a moment later a disturbance on his right.
My lord has completed the work assigned to him; but the viceroy wished him to visit the Imam of Muscat unofficially for a certain purpose I am not at liberty to state.
Under this name, the stream is known sixty-four miles above Calcutta and seventeen below.
Near the Indus are two deserts, one 500 miles long, and the other 400, though the grains may be cultivated in the valleys and other low places; and perhaps these regions will be reclaimed by artificial irrigation.
"The point where we are is Cape Colaba, and the small point is Cape Malabar," said Lord Tremlyn.
"Yes, sir; I am just getting an idea in regard to it, though the thing is awash so that I can hardly make it out," replied the second officer.
Bland, as he took from his pocket a note, and delivered it to Captain Ringgold.
They are one story high, with a broad veranda, like the one we have just visited.
"I will do so with the greatest pleasure," replied the speaker, as he took his place on the rostrum again.
"He fostered commerce by the construction of roads, by the establishment of an excellent police system, and introduced a uniform system of weights and measures.
Before the party entered a carriage arrived, from which General Noury and another person alighted.
On this day it was to be an elephant fight.
He was politely applauded, and the strangers seemed to enjoy his discourse more than the rest of the party.
In the evening the entire company attended the Church of England at the invitation of Lord Tremlyn; and the sermon was preached by the Bishop of Bombay.
The party had been there only long enough to see the sights, before the high official, Ali-Noury Pacha, in his steam-yacht come into the harbor of Funchal.
"This affair is in the nature of a religious festival," said Sir Modava.
A JUVENILE WEDDING AND HINDU THEATRICALS 187 CHAPTER XXI.
He was well trained as an oarsman, and the second officer was satisfied that he was doing his full share of the work.
"We are now in the Punjab, the north-western corner of India," said the Hindu gentleman, when they were seated in the parlor of the hotel.
They construct a great number of temples of gilt paper, and after marching with them in procession through the city, they cast them into the sea.
The military portion of the procession was completed by several regiments of the Guicowar's special army.
The band was playing on the promenade, and the party were taking their last view of Bombay and its surroundings.
"I think it is the bottom of a rather small vessel, upside down; for I see something like a keel.
This order was executed with all the atrocity incident to the character of the savages, and the bodies of the victims were thrown into a well near their prison.
"He used up years in this manner, and after much reasoning, came to the conclusion that ignorance was misery.
But the newspapers will want the account of your shipwreck, and a reporter came off with me," replied the official.
After all the magnificent buildings of this kind the party had visited in Turkey, Egypt, and Algeria, it was not a great attraction.
Felix divided himself up among the three parties; and, as he was a lively boy, he afforded no little amusement to all of them.
Emerging from these narrow streets, the company came to a section where the avenues were broad, with handsome houses built upon them.
When, therefore, the pious Jain comes upon a wounded creature of the lower order, he stops to attend to its needs, and even takes it into his house to be healed.