"It is all very fine for you," she said.
I will tell you all I can, of course; but may I say good-bye now, for I have a good deal to do before dinner?" "You are not half as friendly as you used to be," said Florence, pouting.
He don't mind a word I say, so will you talk to him, aunty?" "But he can't be in the yard without being seen; you say that they are bringing lamps and will make the place as bright as day." "Yes, but he will be in the sty with Brownie; and he as good as said he'd give her a pinch to make her squeal." "Oh, indeed!
She took out of her pocket the letter which the foundation girls had sent her, and opened and read it.
Her father was a very rich man; she had been brought up with great freedom, but also with certain bold liberal ideas as regards the best in life and conduct.
I must go out on important business.
Tennant raised her head when she heard the door gently shut.
It is not very easy to know the head-mistress; the girls know her up to a certain point, but personal friendship as between one woman and another cannot quite exist between a little girl and her head-mistress.
You were a member of that rebellious society, the Wild Irish Girls?" "Yes, Miss Mackenzie." Ruth's "Yes" was very clear; her face looked modest but firm.
I have told him so much about you, and I have told granny too, and they both picture you somewhat as you are.
You see Cassandra, before all things he was a gentleman." Cassandra started.
She stood up, therefore, at her work, in order, as she expressed it, to save time.
She got quite dreadful about the blouse, and she tried to make out that I had stolen the money from mother to buy it.
"I don't think I can ever change my way," she said.
You had better keep a sort of general eye on her, mother, for there's no saying what she will do.
You have a few minutes in which to decide.
Kathleen and Aunt Katie O'Flynn laughed and almost shouted in their mirth.
And give me a gun and see me bring down a bird on the wing.
"I am not going to be shy," cried the new-comer in a hearty, clear, loud voice with a considerable amount of brogue in it.
"You have not, I presume, asked us to come here without having some plan in your head." "The first thing to do is to get hold of all possible facts," said Miss Ravenscroft.
Craven more often than not had his little cask of beer empty.
You are going to the railway station, aren't you, miss?" Kathleen felt inclined to knock that interfering woman down.
"If I am a chatterbox, you are about the greatest preacher, with the most long-winded sermons, that ever entered a house.
There never was a more affectionate, more generous-hearted girl than Kathleen; but of self-control she had little or no knowledge, and those who crossed her will had yet to find that Kathleen would not obey, for she was fearless, defiant, resolute--in short, a rebel born and bred.
Church was a little woman; she had very tiny feet and hands, and was very proud of them.
"Brownie and I were chumming up like anything," he said; then he pushed Susy aside and walked into the old lady's presence.
Do you see this dozen of blouses, all exactly alike, in this box?
"Why, of course, Ruth; it is the only thing." "But does it mean sometimes, grandfather--dishonor?" "No, it never means that," said Mr.
Her depression had now left her, and she felt excited, but at the same time irritated.
The intense light made her golden hair shine, and brought out the delicate perfection of each feature; the merry eyes framed in their dark lashes, the gleaming white teeth, the rosy lips were all apparent.
You musn't; you daren't." Kathleen pushed past her.
Nobody believes in them," said Alice.
She thoroughly enjoyed her dinner, and, while she was eating it, forgot all about Susy and the pale-blue cashmere blouse.
"Now my love, tell me, and be quick, about all you have been doing.
I must hear the thing out," she kept saying to herself.
My eyes can almost pierce through the deal and see the lovely garments folded away inside." Alice took no notice; she marched on to her room.
Craven, "we must humor him.--Don't you take any notice, Miss O'Hara; don't contradict him, I mean." Kathleen nodded.
You couldn't now, I suppose, oblige me with a stamp." "Of course I can," said Susy, cheerfully.
Church hobbled back again into her small sitting-room.
Perhaps I had better leave the school." "No, Kathleen, you cannot leave it in the ordinary way.
It is a big rise for me.
Susy went into the parlor, where tea was laid on the table.
You are such a busy little maid now, what with your school, and what with your lessons, and what with that big scholarship--sixty pounds a year.
Your mother is tired, and you--you lazy omadhauns--" "Well, go on," said Ben.
She drew a little nearer to her, however, and fixed her very bright eyes on the girl's face." "But we needn't go to the pit, need we?" she said.
Take your place, Tom; and when the others go into the yard for their foolish mummeries--for I can't make out that there's a bit of sense in this scheme from first to last--why, you and I will finish up what is left of the good things." "You are a brick, Aunt Church," said Tom.
I wonder mother yields to her.
And did you, when you were like that, submit to being tied up in steel chains all round every bit of you?
My aunt from Ireland (Miss O'Flynn is her name--Miss Katie O'Flynn) was staying at the Métropole.
Yes, I do." "Don't you remember my pointing her out to you?" "Of course I remember it, Cassandra; and she looked--oh, lovely!" "She is far more lovely than she looks--that is, if you mean she is clever and taking and all the rest.
You shall have a cup of tea and a nice sweet bun with it, and what more can a poor old body like myself offer?
She looked now eagerly for Kathleen, who had shunned her from the instant they had entered the school; she stood just by the gate waiting for her.
I have a magnifying-glass, too, that I can put into the microscope; it will make you see the root of a hair on your head.
As to Miss Ravenscroft, I have never even seen her." "And who is she, darling?" "The head-mistress, and no end of a toff." "What's a toff, dear?" "It's a slang word they use in stupid old England." "I don't admire it, my love.
Under the lid was a lot of tissue-paper.
Presently she uttered a little shriek.
Kathleen and Grandfather Craven 281 XXV.
Craven rose and went on tiptoe into the kitchen.
Yes, child, by birth you are a lady, as good as any of them--as good as the best." "They are dead," said Ruth.
She has a way of putting information into you so that you cannot help knowing.
And mother says that I may have her to coach me for the big scholarship--the sixty-pounds-a-year scholarship.
Her pile of books, which she had brought in her satchel, lay on a chair.
One lady was dressed in what I should call a very loud style.
There was no moon and the night was dark; but one girl had brought a lantern.
Of course, a lot of the foundation girls are very common; but when one sees a perfect lady like Ruth one ought to recognize her." "Of course," said Kathleen, fidgeting a little as she walked.
She is a perfect horror," said Alice.
Not a single girl failed Kathleen in this moment of her appeal.
Hopkins was quite prostrate, but being a woman with a good deal of vigor and determination, she induced one of her relatives to lend her one hundred pounds, and determined to keep on with the shop.
I come from the land of the mountain and the stream; of the shamrock; of the deep, deep blue sea." "Ireland?
But I have no time to talk now; only meet me, and bring as many of the foundationers as you can collect into the left-hand corner of the playground, just behind the Botanical Laboratory, at recess." Kate made no answer, unless a toss of her head could have been taken as a reply.
He came back the next instant with a telegram, which was addressed to Miss O'Flynn.
It isn't often she has anything of that kind to eat; she lives very penuriously, you know, mother." "Well, I suppose I can fling in the sausages.
"Aristocratic!" cried Kate.--"Hannah Johnson, you haven't given your opinion yet.--And, Ruth Craven, you haven't given yours." "I reserve my opinion," said Ruth.
She stood for a moment in one of the corridors to collect her thoughts; then going to the room where the hats and jackets hung on pegs, she took down her own, put them on, and left the school.
I saw Kathleen for a few minutes this morning, and she said that she had twelve applications for badges already to-day, but she told the new girls that they had best not come to the meeting to-night, as there wouldn't be room for them.
You look so terribly tired; and I don't think you ought to have this horrible work to do.
She was glad of that; she was glad that she was not acutely sorry, or acutely glad, or acutely anxious about anything.
I can't help saying, Miss Mackenzie, that it would be a very terrible thing, and would, I believe much injure the school, if a girl like Ruth were expelled.
Kathleen Takes Ruth to Town 192 XVII.
A hand was thrust into each of his pockets, and these pockets were destitute of coin.
Tennant, and even Susy, although she's not up to much, and two or three other girls--but I only _love_ you.
Miss Ravenscroft uttered a deep sigh.
Now you are dressed; that's fine.
It is on that ground they will expel you, but it is strong enough; no one can suppose for a moment that they are acting with injustice." "I am glad it is on that ground," said Ruth softly.
They look up to you as above them by birth; your very way, your words, can influence them.
Finally, she took the box of pale-blue cashmere blouses and opened it in the light of the lamps.
I liked Ireland, and I could welcome any Irish maiden.--Give me your hand, missy; I am proud to see you." Kathleen gave her hand.
Then she turned to her companions--to the six girls who had decided to brave all the terrors of their expedition.
She is a brick of bricks.
The head-mistress superintended the management of every girl in the school, but she did not show herself except when she read prayers in her deep musical voice morning after morning, or when something very special occurred.
"I am going up to bed as usual, and when mother and Alice and Dave are safe in their rooms I'll slip down again.
She is a most sweet girl; she is a lady placed in a position which a lady should scarcely occupy, but through it all she will never betray the true instincts of her nature." "I am sure of that.
I have my society and--and the school." "Well, then, stay, love; only don't keep me now.
"Why, Kathleen is like a fairy godmother.
Very well, I will meet her.
Some time, if you have a headache and feel very bad, as my dear father does sometimes, I shall play to you; but I can't learn as the other girls learn--it isn't in me." Again she put her fingers on the keys of the piano and brought forth a few sobbing, broken-hearted notes.
Nineteen-and-sixpence had been abstracted from the till.
Cassandra came close to her and looked into her face.
Are their scandalous proceedings a nightly occurrence?" "Oh, no; I do not think they meet oftener than once a week." "Have you any idea what night they choose?" "I am rather under the impression that this is the night." "Then send some one to see, Miss Ravenscroft.
"Do I love her any longer?" she said to herself.
Isn't this a perfect duck?
On her neck she wore a rich necklet of flaming beads, which was extremely becoming to her; and thrown carelessly round her neck and shoulders was a boa of white fur, and she had a muff to match.
There is some commotion in the school in connection with her.
We'll have a good meal presently, and then I have a bit of a thought in the back of my head which I think will please you both.
Naylor, does the beauty of Ruth Craven's face affect this question?
he has plenty of money, and I don't much care," replied Kathleen.
I dream of it at night, and think of it every minute of the day." "Come here and look me in the eyes, Tom," said Mrs.
I don't want you to be with me all the time.
When she ran quickly home under the stars she began to realize what she had done She had done something of which her mother would have been ashamed.
The most wonderful, delightful chance is offered to us.
"I sent for you last night and you did not obey my command.
"You look very pale, dear Ruth," she said.
"At the beginning of the term," she said, "a girl of the name of Kathleen O'Hara joined our number.
She and I have never got on.
It seems scarcely fair, for I must say that I don't like Kathleen.
Ruth's very steady eyes were raised; she fixed them on Miss Mackenzie.
The Right Side of the Ledger 308 XXVII.
"She is too much of a brick." "Then she'll be expelled." "What nonsense!" "You wait and see.
Tennant, feeling very much like a naughty child herself, enjoyed her tea.
"She is very clever," thought that young lady, "but she has tried that dodge on so often before that I am not going to be deceived by it now." Accordingly she went into her mother's room and stood by the window.
But I had never been to a theater, and it was such a tremendous temptation.
"Then what have you come for, Susan?" she said.
"This is going to be a real good secret society," she said.
Oh, I'll see to that.
Each house consisted of two stories, with a hall door in the middle and a sitting room on each side.
"Come in, Susy Hopkins," she said.
Church in the act of being deposited in her bath-chair, and Tom, looking proud and flushed, attending on her.
Her hair was neatly arranged; her face was calm.
I've got this white one for little Ruth Craven, and I want Alice to have this so badly.
"I saw you there to-day.
Your place in the school is secure enough." "What does that matter, Flo, when those you love are in danger?" "Those you love in danger, Cassie!
She is my mother's own sister, and such a darling.
Do not approve of your society.
"Can't say unless I know everything; but on the whole, perhaps, she was right." "I think she was, grandfather," said Ruth slowly.
Ruth walked slowly and as if she were tired.
There are few people good enough for you." "To think of her gives me a headache," continued Cassandra.
"I can write by post." She crushed the telegram up and thrust it into her pocket.
"A little tin of sardines--some ladies are fond of a savory--" "Yes, mother; quite right.
Ruth is the kind who never tells.
Cassandra glanced at her, uttered a quick sigh, and resumed: "Whether you like it or not, I am glad you are out of the whole thing.
Occasionally, too, if the conversation is sorrowful, tears flow and sobs come from the excited and over-sensitive hearts.
She went upstairs, turned the handle of the door, and spoke.
Hopkins was so stunned that she could not speak for a moment.
"They will be all agog to come on.
Kathleen was very glad that morning to get the boys' attention.
I do hope we'll have a right good time." With this sort of chatter the girls got to London.
"What is your name?" she asked.
I can't do it always, but I will on this occasion.
If so, it is very thoughtful of her.
I've got a lot of toffee in my pocket." "Hand it out, Rosy, and perhaps we'll tell you," said Kate.
Oh, there is your daughter.
"She wanted me to go and see her at six o'clock.
Tennant, let us come and examine everything.
My dear child, the whole thing is a mistake.
Ruth, with her bright eyes fixed on her grandfather, stood close by.
Miss Ravenscroft did resume it.
There were heavy feasts in the old hall, and sittings up very late at night, and no end of hunting and fishing and shooting in their seasons.
She mustn't go; I can't allow it.
So Kathleen had thought when she left the house that morning; but as she entered the school she knew that one girl, and that the girl whom she most cared for, had decided to choose the thorny path which led far from Kathleen and her company.
Hopkins left the house, and Tom sank into a chair by his sister.
KATHLEEN HAS A GOOD TIME IN LONDON.
Now to do this we must get all particulars.
It's a bit pale and pulled down you look.
"But you mustn't go, miss; it would be madness--wicked.
They were both to work for two hours, and afterwards their coach was to arrive.
"What a beautiful face!" "My dear Mrs.
"If I can help you, you dear, tired, worn one, I shall be only too glad." "I am sure, mother," said Alice, "it is very good of Kathleen to wish to do the household work; but as she has been sent here to gain some information of another sort, do you think it ought to be allowed?" "And who will prevent it, darling?
She turned away from Alice.
She called Tom to her side.
Sometimes a girl would put her hand up to her neck in a somewhat significant way, and another girl would respond with a similar signal.
I am very thankful I happened to meet you." "I will see you to-morrow--to-morrow," panted Kathleen.
I am going to town afterwards." Without waiting for Susy's reply, Kathleen turned on her heel and returned home.
Don't on any account shut the shop until I appear." Susy, feeling cross and miserable, all her bright hopes dashed to the ground, took a couple of books and went into the shop and sat behind the counter.
I shall be forty in two years, and that by some people is considered young." "Then I suppose it is mending those horrid stockings that makes you so old." "Mending stockings doesn't help to keep you young, certainly." "Shall I help you?
I am only too pleased to think that any daughter of yours should be taken notice of by a young lady of the Miss Kathleen O'Hara type.
She is one of the foundation girls, but some of the girls who are not foundationers have singled her out and been specially good to her." "Eh, eh!
The girls ran wildly looking for a third-class carriage.
Of course you will come to-night.
"I am glad I got into the school," she said.
you seem to be just as much infatuated as the others.
The Irish girl was nowhere in sight.
With the exception of yourself we are all English girls." "Yes," said Susy suddenly; "and we have very bad times most of us.
She opened it in some surprise, and read the contents slowly.
Nobody need know; we will be far too careful for that.
"That can be managed," said Miss O'Flynn.
Her beautiful little face was beginning to have its usual effect upon most of the ladies present.
She opened it and went in.
Now, if I was rich like Kathleen, wouldn't I have a gay time of it?
How dared you go away and hide yourself?
And how well it fits!
They have found out that it exists, but they don't know much more.
It was from Aunt Katie O'Flynn: "I have arrived.
"There are a dozen of us now, and there is talk of a sort of livery or badge for the members of the Cabinet; but we'll know all about it when we meet sharp at nine to-night.
It is never safe to leave money about." "But I haven't got the money, Aunt Church.
Ruth lived in a cottage which was little better than a workman's cottage.
It does mean sometimes all you have got." "Yes," said Ruth, "I understand." She rose to her feet.
By-and-by Miss O'Flynn called the two girls to her side.
But I will be back long before nine.
It is somewhat hard on me that Ruth Craven should have come between us." "But she hasn't.
I wish I could go back to mother and to my dad.
The Great Shirley School, well as it was managed, had perhaps a larger share than many schools of those temptations which make school a world--a world for the training either for good or evil of those who go to it.
We are all pleased, and expect that she will be a very great acquisition." "Irish girls always are," said Mary.
"Of course," said Miss Ravenscroft.
Isn't she going with you?
"I sha'n't be going out again until I go to Mrs.
I can't go at all now." "But why, darling?" said Kathleen.
There will be no end of a fuss in the school to-day." Ruth did not reply.
See me--without gloves and without a necktie.
If you are going out, it ought to be to church.
God bless you, my darling!
"Mother will be back now, thank goodness!" she thought.
Just at that moment Alice rushed into their bedroom.
A good many of them have dresses like you; and they live in little cottages, and we bring them up to the castle and give them good food very, very often.
"I have often met your grandfather.
Church seemed to sniff the fine quality air in a moment; she even managed to rise from her chair and drop a little curtsy.
"It is getting late, and it would never do for our secret meetings to be discovered." "Whatever happens, we must stick together," said Kathleen.
"If he only knew," she said under her breath--"if he only knew that I was practically sent to Coventry--that none of the nice girls will speak to me.
"Now I don't feel so absolutely horrible," she said to herself.
"It won't happen again, Alice," she said, "for I shall remove the key from the lock.
It's to be hoped you will." "Shyness!" cried Tom.
The Tennants had their meals in a sitting-room on the second floor.
Kathleen, however, was much taken by their schoolboyish ways.
He took it out and looked at it; he turned it round and round and examined it all over.
I am late as it is.
She bobbed here; she bobbed there.
Why, old man, what does a woman want with all that learning?" "If a woman has brains she's bound to use them," replied the old man, as he sat down by the kitchen fire.
Ruth, is it true that they want you to tell?" "They want me to, Kathleen," said Ruth; "but I am not going to.
She's in such a taking about little Peter; she's quite certain he's in for measles or something worse.
"Now then, I can go ahead," thought Kathleen.
Don't you have anything to do with them, boys." But the boys only begged more earnestly than ever to have a look at Kathleen.
"Oh, let me pass!" she said.
I am more glad than sorry, on the whole, this morning.
Miss Dove paused for a moment, and then decided that she would let the question in dispute go by for the present.
"No; I did not mean it as a slap at you or anybody.
Oh, the dear tired one!" cried Kathleen.
You say these girls meet in a quarry?" "I have heard rumors to that effect." "Do you think they meet there every night?
In one sense she was always a more or less troublesome girl; but where she loved she loved deeply, and from that hour she gave up all thought of rebellion either against the governors or against Miss Ravenscroft.
Wouldn't you like to walk out with him in a sky-blue toque trimmed with forget-me-nots?" "It puts me all in a flutter to think of it, miss," said Maria.
Church's house was flat and long and pleasant to walk on.
"You see, it was this way.
She paused as if troubled by some thought; then her face grew bright, and she stepped along more briskly.
It was the custom of the governors to meet four times a year as a matter of course, and as a matter of expediency they met about as many times again.
come along; here's the train." The great train thundered into the station.
She had a flashing desire to turn tail and run out of the room; but the same power which had pushed her into the room now sent her right up the long central hall past all the watching, expectant, eager-looking girls.
Susy stretched out her hand and clutched that of a slim girl who was following in the train of people.
I have been sent here, and here I am.
She had no time, however, to change her dress, but after washing her hands and smoothing out her tangled hair, and leaving Miss O'Flynn in the care of Mrs.
"You knew, of course," she said, "how much I love you." "You are awfully good to me, Cassie." "As a rule I am not fond of what schoolgirls call falling in love," continued Cassandra; "but I love you.
It is my room as well as yours." No answer.
"We'd form a crusade for her," Edith had whispered, back.
The Irish girl looked quite happy that day; she had something to interest her at last.
Her face was ghastly pale, and she looked as though she had been crying very hard.
Kathleen next handed a slightly handsomer badge, but with exactly the same device, to the members of her Cabinet.
she is your mistress--the head-mistress of the Great Shirley School." "Well, and what about that?
"My dear, you are not looking too well." "Please do not mind my looks." "It is just this, dear.
"These are to make a pudding," she said.
After a time an elderly servant answered her summons.
Only too well did she see the difference between them.
"Well, if that's the case I'm sorry for her," said Kathleen.
I know what Ruth tries for she will get, for her brain is of that fine quality that could not brook defeat, and her mind is of that high order that it must adjust itself to true learning.
My opinion is that schoolgirls ought to be modest, and attentive to their books, and not thinking of giving themselves airs.
Alice's face was still full of an awful suppressed knowledge, which she would not let out to any one; but Mrs.
Why, her old grandfather kept nothing better than a huckster's shop.
"All day I have been so fretting that we were taking you out of your station; and that is a sad mistake--sad and terrible.
During her husband's lifetime the stationer's shop had gone well and provided a comfortable living for his wife, son, and daughter.
"You mean kindly," she said, "but perhaps you had better not.
I only went into the parlor because I could not do my exercises in the shop.
So you will have to go to her to-night and tell her that she must meet me on my way to school to-morrow.
It isn't possible for every one to notice her; although, for my part, I have no patience with that sort of false pride.
You can go to that horrible, detestable girl when it is necessary, and have your odious coach to post you up.
You don't know what this means in our lives.
Her lips were firmly shut.
She was dressed in rusty black; she had a front of stiff curls on her forehead, a white widow's-cap over it, and a small black crape handkerchief crossed on her breast.
It is sky-blue with forget-me-nots.
For Kathleen had discrimination; it mattered nothing to her whether a girl paid or did not pay for her lessons, whether she belonged to the despised foundationers or was respected and looked up to by paying girls.
This turned out to be the case.
Nevertheless, Ruth Craven must fall if necessary for the good of the many.--Ruth, I wish to ask you a certain question.
"It's all right; it's splendidly right.
If you still persist in keeping your knowledge to yourself they will be obliged to strike your name off the school roll.
She had also some mathematical work to get through or she would never be able to keep her place in class.
I prophesy a bad end for you, and trouble for your unfortunate mother.
And then, of course, we throw in a lot of extra things--the black velveteen dresses, and other garments of the same quality." "It must be a wonderful place to live in.
It was in that light Miss O'Flynn chose to consider her conduct.
She had bright intelligent brown eyes, however, a nice voice, and a pleasant way.
But when all the news had been told, when the exact number of dogs had been recounted, the cats and kittens described, the fowls, the goats, the donkeys, the horses, the cows enumerated, it came to be Aunt Katie's turn to listen.
You have chosen the unworthy course.
You shall come with me to Ireland in the summer.
I am glad to think that my father served the Queen, and that my mother was the daughter of a clergyman.
"All I want is just to look into your face.
And as to Alice, she'd be even worse.
"Now I shall look stylish," said Kathleen, and she slipped the ring on the third finger of her left hand.
Of course, I know that you are very pretty and fascinating, and that lots and lots of girls love you, and will always love you.
We can do some good work." "Let us," said Ruth.
In that case it would be a matter of insurrection on your part, and it is very doubtful if you would be allowed to remain in the school." "It is very cruel to me," began Ruth.
"What with the finery for my dear, darling chosen ones, and the badges for all the members, I shall do." She was utterly reckless with regard to expense.
I don't want anything that you have to offer me.
This is worth a great deal." Meanwhile Kathleen rang the bell at Sans Souci in a very smart, imperative manner.
See; she gave me this." Here she pointed proudly to the Irish diamond brooch, which she had stuck in the bosom of her dress.
"Do what you like with Ruth Craven, Miss Mackenzie," she cried; "but put your questions over again to me, and I will answer them one after the other.
"I have a great mind to take to you all, to make a fuss about you, and to show the others how badly they behave." "You'd be a queen amongst us; there's no doubt about that." "It would be lovely, and it would be a tremendous bit of naughtiness," thought Kathleen.
"Thank you, all the same, for your forbearance." CHAPTER VI.
The others are fond of me; they don't think me perfect--and indeed I don't want them to--but they love me for those qualities in me which are worthy of love." "How you chatter!" said Alice.
I have been looking up the plays at the theaters, and there is a very fine piece on at the Princess'.
There are twelve of them, and they all live in their tiny cottages close to each other.
She had a crimson sash round her black velvet dress, and a wide lace collar encircled her neck.
Afterwards we can have a good chat; and then you shall have a room to yourself in order to work up your lessons for Miss Renshaw.
"Are you now a member of that society?" "No." "Why did you join it?" "Because I loved Kathleen O'Hara." "She is the promoter, then?" Ruth was silent.
Kate Rourke, of course, must come; and dear little Ruth Craven.
It is time for you to be dressing, you know." "So it is," said Mrs.
"That grand beauty of a young lady, the pride of the school?
She will have something to say, and I want you so badly.
Hopkins stood, looking very pale and perplexed, in the parlor.
What a pity we can't know her!" said Alice Tennant.
The boys went to another foundation school near by; and altogether the family managed to scrape along.
I saw you towering up in the middle of them like a mountain." Kathleen's eyes flashed.
Wake up, won't you, Alice?" she said.
Tell you, Susy, I'm up to a lark, and the best of the supper goes down my throat.
Her mother's name is Mrs.
She has told me you have been good to her." "She has been very good to me.
It is better for one to suffer than for all to suffer.
It was just at that moment that Ruth in her shabby dress, but with her sweet and most beautiful face, joined the group of girls who were going into the school.
It certainly would," said Kathleen.
And now, see, here is something for your sweet self.
Ben, looking very red and shamefaced, would not meet her eyes.
In the whole of England I only love you, and you are going to give me up." "No; I will still be your friend." "But you have refused to join my society; you have refused to belong to the Wild Irish Girls." "I can't help myself." "But you promised." "I know I did.
"It is the most beautiful thing I ever saw in my life," she thought.
"If I even had fifty pounds," she said, "I wouldn't let that child spend every hour at school.
You are talking pure nonsense, Susan Hopkins, and I'll break my word if that's all you have to tell." "It's true enough.
This was from Dublin, from Aunt Katie herself: "Have told your father.
But perhaps when you see Miss O'Hara and Miss O'Flynn you'll take a fit of shyness.
Ellen trembled very much in the company of the old lady, and Mrs.
What am I to do about Cassandra and about Alice?" "You think a great deal about Cassandra, don't you?" "Oh, yes; she is quite a splendid girl, and she has been so very good to me." "I suppose you are quite in love with her?" "No, I don't think I am.
Then, too, think of the blouses we have got.
It is this way, Aunt Church: When Miss Kathleen came to the school she took pity on us foundationers.
How handsome you look when you flash your eyes!" said Susy Hopkins.
"You must give it up.
She came from the south-west of Ireland.
She was desperately, madly lonely.
"You see, I am a foundationer, and when she pressed me to join I hated not to; but now I am sorry that I have joined.
You will be very noble now if you cease to belong to the Irish Girls' Society." "'Wild Irish Girls' is the name," said Kathleen.
If nobody came in, and you never left either the shop or the parlor, that money was taken out of the till as though by magic." "We will find it, mother; we are sure to find it," said Susy; and the way she said these words aggravated poor Mrs.
Miss Ravenscroft was standing by her window.
She was met by a teacher, who asked her where she was going.
But I sat where I could see everything." "You couldn't have done so.
You will have to speak out the truth to Miss Ravenscroft, Kathleen, and no mistake about it." "Thank you," replied Kathleen.
"But I do hope you will marshal those dreadful girls into the backyard without frightening my hens or Brownie." "Pigs aren't remarkable for sensitiveness," said Susy.
Over all she slipped her dark-blue velvet jacket, and with rich sables round her neck and wrists, she ran downstairs.
"Would you rather I got you your dinner," she said, "or would you rather I talked to you for a little?" "I'd a sight rather my little Ruth sat near me and let me place my hand on her hair.
"God help me," she said under her breath.--"Cassie, if you knew, if you could guess, you'd pity me." Ruth turned away and followed the teacher into the school.
You must come to me every day; Miss Renshaw will be with us each evening from six to seven.
"I have got your ticket for you," said Susy.
You girls of the present day are so queer, there's no being up to half your pranks.
Kathleen will get into a serious scrape at the school, that's certain." Alice went to her own part of the room, which was full of order and method.
Immediately afterwards Kathleen dashed off to find Ruth.
"Why didn't you send for the police?
She ate her meal soberly, but occasionally a bubble of laughter came to the surface, and her merry eyes glanced from Mrs.
She has called it the Wild Irish Girls.
Poor Hopkins had to pay the money, and from that moment the affairs in the stationer's shop were the reverse of flourishing.
They pressed close together, and one peeped over the shoulder of her companion, another stood on tiptoe, while a third tried to snatch the letter from the hand of her fellow; but all managed to read the words: "Get as many foundation girls as you can to meet me, at whatever place you like to appoint, this evening.
I hear Tom pushing Aunt Church in at the gate; I know he is doing it by the creak of the bath-chair.
"Now, Susy," she said, "Tom will help you, for I have got him to promise.
I mean to write to Aunt Katie O'Flynn to-morrow and give her a fine piece of my mind.
Hopkins, "I wouldn't have thought it of you." "Why, what is it, mother?" "There's nineteen-and-sixpence taken out of the till," said Mrs.
To her relief, she saw that they were alone.
"Just regard me as a necessary evil.
How much do you think I'm going to eat, miss?" "I'm sure you are going to be horribly greedy.
Susy turned and glanced at her brother in some uneasiness.
She ceased to fiddle with her apron, and clasped her two little white hands tightly together.
If you don't tell me in private what you can tell me, I shall be obliged to ask you to appear before the governors.
"Yes and no," said Ruth.
The result of this communication was that, the curtain having fallen for the last time, the actors having left the stage, the play being completely over, and the seven girls being about to get back to Charing Cross as best they could, the lady touched Kathleen on her arm.
She is lying now on the bed with her outdoor boots on, and she won't come to school, or do a single thing I want her to." "The money her father pays will be very welcome, Alice.
"Oh, Susy," she said, "I am so glad you have come!
It did not occur to her as possible that what she and her companions had done could be known.
She has got a beetle's wing, mother, mounted on glass, and when you gaze down at it it seems to be covered with beautiful feathers, as long as though they were on a big bird.
I'm sorry you suffer from rheumatism.
To her the Wild Irish Girls' Society was all that was lovely.
If you have brought the money, Susy, you shall have a cup of tea before you start on your homeward walk.
Do you understand what that means?" "It means that I must go, that I shall lose all the advantages," said Ruth.
"I was either in the shop or in the parlor all the time.
"Why, you are trembling," she said.
She has gone to St.
that is the way of Irish hearts.
He was feeling rather poorly to-day.
"Any one could tell she is just trying it on.
"Granddad," she said after a pause, "is it the best thing--quite the best thing--always to come out on the right side of the ledger?" "Eh?
We will return to that point later on.--Why did you leave the society?" "I did so because I wanted to join a scheme proposed by a girl who was not a foundationer and not a member of the society.
He was a plain, sandy-haired boy, with a freckled face, a wide mouth, and good-humored blue eyes.
Here, do you think you'd like this in your possession?" As Kathleen spoke she held out a golden sovereign in the palm of her little hand.
"I love old ladies." She pushed past Susy and made her appearance in the parlor.
You will excuse me; I can't.
"What are you staring at me for?" said Ben.
You are good; you are very, very good." Ruth caught one of Cassandra's hands and raised it to her lips.
"Perhaps you know," she said, fixing her beady black eyes upon Mrs.
Ruth sighed and continued her walk with Kate.
The color left her face.
They received their badges with hands that very nearly trembled.
he is changing it now into 'St.
"Miss O'Hara," she said, "can I speak to you for a moment?
"I quite understand your being lonely.
"But how are we to get there?
Being an Irish girl, it is quite natural.
There was a sort of buzz or whisper going on in their midst.
these darling little cuffs at the end of the sleeves, and this sweet pink embroidery and this little ruffle of lace round the neck.
A stream of girls were surrounding her, each smiling and trying to draw her attention.
And why should there be such a fuss made about Ruth?
I can't in justice to her explain any further, Florence.
Then the tea was unpacked.
The school came to an end quite in the usual manner.
It is herself that is crossing the briny.
You told me you would let me know to-day." "I have, Cassandra," said Ruth.
Once she pressed her hand to her side, and Alice, passing her, hesitated and looked back.
Thank you very much." She took the jug and walked carefully back to the cottage.
Kathleen drew herself up proudly.
She'd never cry or despair; that wasn't her way, bless you!
"I can't possibly fail Kathleen," she said to herself.
You wouldn't be as cruel as that to your own flesh and blood, would you?" "Well, Mary, I only said it to frighten you.
Susy and Tom, you are both good children.
She was a very kind woman herself; she was a motherly woman, too, and she thought of her own girls tucked up safely in bed at home, and wondered what she would feel if they were alone at a London theater at this hour.
"Then that clinches the matter.
"Where in the world are you going?" said her mother in a fretful tone.
_"Rule Three._ To have a bit of fun all to ourselves at least once a week." This rule quite "brought down the house." They shouted so loud that if the spot had been less lonely some one would certainly have taken cognizance of their proceedings.
People turned to look at them as they sped upwards.
But it's all right now.
The girls reached the school without any further adventure.
It is a great trial to me to be obliged to deny you the ribbons and frills and laces which most girls of your age possess." "Thanks, mother," answered Alice; "but if you were as Rich as Croesus, I should not wish, while I am a schoolgirl, to dress any better than I do." "You certainly have a great deal of sense, dear; but don't be too hard on the little girl.
Presently she and Cassandra were crossing the common arm-in-arm.
"I had much rather be a foundationer.
Surely you are not frightened.
"I don't know the meaning of the word.
I shall be in the train and far enough away before they have discovered that I have gone," was her thought.
It is necessary that I should know all that is to be known with regard to the unruly condition of the foundationers of the Great Shirley School.
She heard Alice's step, and she felt a certain vindictiveness as she turned the key in the lock.
It was now half-past eight, and Susy determined to take the bull by the horns and to close the shop without further ado.
"Benny," said his sister, "if you have done your lessons, you had better go to bed." "I don't want to go so early.
She was sorry for her own sake that she had met Kathleen, and that she was going with her to London; but on the other hand she was glad that she was with the girl, who by herself might have got into a serious scrape.
"I don't know," replied Kathleen.
You can't think what impudent sort of boys my brothers are, and they have always twitted me for my good fortune in getting into the Great Shirley School.
Perhaps I am a bit wild sometimes, but your way would never drive me to work or anything else.
Now sit down here and have a right good meal.
"How can Kathleen, who with all her eccentricities is a lady, waste her time talking to an insignificant little girl like Susy?" thought Cassandra.
And what does dress matter?
She then came to a stile, against which she leant.
"Be sure you come and tell me afterwards what it all means, Cassie," said Florence, touching her friend affectionately on the shoulder.
There is a loft over one, and I keep apples and nuts there.
"Come in, Kathleen," called Mrs.
"Yes," said Alice, "that is just like her--just the sort of thing she would do.
There is a girl in this school whom you all love and respect.
We came to this most painful resolve knowing well that it would cast a blight upon your life, that wherever you went the knowledge that you had been publicly expelled from the Great Shirley School would follow you--that you would, in short, step down, Ruth Craven.
Early in the day, dad, I did not think that I could stay at all; but I have got a plan in my head now, and if I succeed I may at least put up with one term of this detestable school.
She worked just as assiduously as though nothing was happening.
The box seemed to fill up every crevice of her heart, as she expressed it, and it was a very happy girl who dressed to go to the Weldons' that evening.
And do look at her!
Tennant looked out, half expecting to see a mangled body on the ground; but there was no one in view.
"Has he gone home, Aunt Church," she asked.
Why are you going out?" "I want to see a school friend." "You will be back in time for tea, won't you?" "Can't say." "But your mother, the poor tired one, asked you to be back." "I do wish, Kathleen, that you wouldn't call mother by that ridiculous name.
This light was caused by two lamps which had been placed on the ground in the old quarry; Kathleen had brought them herself in a hamper.
It is a fine day, child, and your cheeks look very fresh.
Don't be harsh," gasped little Mrs.
And you'll just pinch that pig and make him squeal like anything." Tom laughed.
Some of the stony despair had left it; the color came and went in her cheeks.
"You don't look as if you did.
"Go on," exclaimed Hannah Johnson--"go on and tell us what you want.
She had not yet had a full and perfect view of Kathleen.
She will help us if any one can.
Kathleen followed her at a respectful distance, and still humming "The wearing of the Green," she knocked at Miss Ravenscroft's door.
How is everybody at home?
Ah, yes; it's lonely I am.
"I know the shop quite well." Susy said good-bye, and then stepped down the little path.
"I haven't a scrap of heart in my body to-day," he remarked to his chosen friends.
"Well, I am coming to the great news.
The ugliness of it would make you sick.
He found the old lady sitting at her parlor window looking out as usual for him.
"I am not nearly as low-spirited as I was," she said after a pause.
The girls had all been watching her.
Kathleen O'Hara clung to Ruth Craven's arm; she kept talking to her and asking her questions.
I am sure I should love you very much if I knew you well." "That is not the question, my dear.
"I must speak to her." She was just bending forward, meaning to touch Ruth on her shoulder, when there came a commotion near the entrance, and the excited face of Alice Tennant came into view.
Plucky people were not as a rule brought into trouble of that sort.
"What are you doing outside, Miss O'Hara?
"I can't give you any further time.
She praised Susy in honeyed words to the visitor.
Tennant looked at Kathleen with loving eyes.
So they left money for the purpose, and that money, wisely invested, has borne fruit.
On the contrary, she loves you very much; and she will take Miss Ruth Craven back with her.
"Wouldn't you like some oyster-patties and some plumcake to munch while you are talking, deary?" "I shouldn't mind." "I'll ring and order them." A servant appeared.
You know most of the names of the members.
Church keep gazing up at that ugly glass across the room?
She wondered what Cassandra would say on Saturday.
You must give the whole thing up or you will incur his serious displeasure.
Don't you remember that time when we had Norah Mahoney at the school?
I don't see what call you have to be going anywhere else on Sunday evening." "I want to see Ruth Craven.
She had a face summat like yours, no way pretty, but what you'd call boastful and conceited; and she thought a sight of herself, and put on gay dress that she had no call to wear.
She took a keen desire to belong to us, and I sort of half, in a kind of a way, promised her.
It is my opinion she will get into very serious trouble before she leaves Great Shirley School.
I should be sorry if she were expelled; there is so much that is good in her.
There was absolute despair in the eyes generally so clear and steadfast and bright.
You will be sure to attend?
"You don't quite understand our manners in this country.
After that there was silence.
If that can be done, and you are successful in finding the girls, we shall have the matter, as it were, in a nutshell, and we shall soon crush this disgraceful rebellion." "And what about Kathleen?" asked Miss Ravenscroft.
"And how did you get on?" asked Alice, noticing the dejected tone of her voice.
She should dispense _largesse_ in the true sense of the word.
Will you take a chair here by the fire, miss?
He heard about it two nights ago, and that made me make up my mind.
For a couple of months now he had never sat in the kitchen; he said it caused a buzzing in his head.
The simplest plan is to get the girl herself to make a full confession to me; but in any case, you understand, _I must know_." CHAPTER XVI.
Church, "and there's a measuring spoon close to it.
"You know, Alice," she said, "the child is very lovable and kind-hearted--a little barbarian in some senses of the word, but a fine nature--of that I am certain." "I am so busy to-night, mother," replied Alice.
I know that you are an Irish girl, and you must be lonely.
"That's all right, Susan," said Kathleen.
I have got my lessons to do." Kathleen raised her brows and gave a slow smile.
Tennant pointed to a seat, and she sat down.
"What can have ailed Aunt Katie to betray me in such a fashion?" she thought.
Miss Katie O'Flynn is coming, too, and it's to your house they're to come; and it's to happen to-morrow night." "Really, Susy, of all the impertinent children, I do think you beat all.
She did not say anything further but left the room.
Do you think my father would have come out on the right side of the ledger?" "Ah, child!
She isn't meant to have it.
As she could not mend matters, she did not see why she should worry about them.
Silver should always be handed on to the eldest son." Susy felt that she was almost worthy of Kathleen's friendship as she regarded the silver forks.
Her passionate love for Cassandra was perhaps her best and strongest quality; but of late she had exhibited a sense of almost unwarrantable jealousy when any other girl showed a preference for her special friend.
Tennant, can I have a telegraph form?" Mrs.
She held it close to her eyes, which were rather short-sighted.
She walked fast and reached Mrs.
"Can't you guess what you are doing?" she said.
I was born free, and Britons never, never will be slaves.
I am going to be late this morning.
Is there likely to be a vacancy soon, Aunt Katie?" "Well, dear, there is a vacancy at the present moment.
Her mother ought to be coming in now.
She strutted about among the neighbors, and they said, 'Fine feathers make fine birds,' and laughed at her past bearing.
Ruth's Hard Choice: She Consults Her Grandfather 263 XXIII.
"You haven't been to see mother for a long time, and if you ain't got any money to buy a dinner for yourself, it is but fair you should have a slice off our Sunday joint." "Sunday joint, indeed!" snapped Mrs.
Susy's own home was a palace in comparison.
I wonder what will happen, Kathleen.
Mother and I often sigh and pine even for _one_ pound.
I tell you what it is, Susy.
I must finish my own private affairs in my own half of the room." She retreated from the door, and the scratching of the pen continued.
I'd do anything on earth to please you.
"Will you be quick, Kathleen, as she is rather in a hurry?" Kathleen got up with apparent alacrity.
There will be something nice for you when you come back to tea," said Kathleen.
Susy's home was in the High Street of the little town of Merrifield.
You are nothing but a little, under-bred Cockney." "Thank you, Aunt Church.
Tennant's house to the station was the best part of a mile, but Kathleen was fleet of foot and soon accomplished the distance.
But, of course, we are not going up to London," said Alice.
Church, waving a thin arm and motioning Susy to approach.
"She is in the hall, miss." Kathleen flew out, and before Mrs.
"Come right over here, little girl," said Mrs.
It is whispered in the school that we are found out, and the school, bless it!
There were swings and garden-seats and preparations for tennis and other games in the rest of the big playground, but nothing had ever been done at the back of the Laboratory.
Perhaps the poor tired one would like to have a pleasant afternoon in my bedroom.
Kathleen, although she had been brought up in a considerable amount of wasteful splendor, was indifferent to what she ate.
It seemed to me that I ought to go first to my aunt.
She belonged to us for a time, and now she doesn't belong to us." "Well?" said Kathleen, feeling interested and a little startled.
Such conduct is so unworthy, so undignified, and so absolutely sinful that there is only one course to pursue.
"What next will the child ask?
Regard what you have to do as an unpleasant duty, and don't consider yourself in any way responsible for being forced into the position which one would not, as a rule, advocate.
I have often had a feeling that I ought to give up the shop and take service somewhere.
Alice caught a glimpse of her bright face by the light of the moon, which was already getting up in the sky.
"I am a bit hard of hearing, my dear; come close to me." "Mother's awfully sorry, but she can't pay you to-day." "Oh!" said Mrs.
A great lady should do her utmost to make others happy.
"Susy," she said the moment they got out of doors, "what is the matter with Ruth Craven?" "With Ruth Craven?" said Susy, who was by no means inclined to waste her time over such an uninteresting person.
She was being carried completely off her feet.
After a pause she continued: "We will leave that matter for the present.
She put on her spectacles and read the words, "The Wild Irish Girls, October, 18--." "Whatever does this mean?" she said.
The next instant David had opened the door with his latchkey, and Kathleen was waiting for them in the hall.
"Yes," he said after a minute's pause.
Speak up, boy--speak up." Tom quite longed to say that there was.
When a man doesn't attend to his own business, accounts go wrong.
Tears filled her tired eyes as she thanked God for her good children.
The man was honest, and asked the customary shilling.
I can drop from the window, but I should prefer going by the back door; and I don't think Maria will betray me." Just then Alice strolled into the room.
Kathleen dropped into a chair.
My name is Susan Hopkins.
She isn't a bit better than the rest of us." "And I love her already." "She is no better than the rest of us," repeated Susan Hopkins.
Years ago it was an old story with him that something had gone wrong with the books; but, dear hearts!
They were on no account to collect in a mass.
It doesn't matter this evening." Susy felt vexed; she knew her mother would blame her for sending the ladies away without completing a purchase.
"We all agree," said the Misses Scott and Miss Jane Smyth.
I only wish that mother had never been induced to take Kathleen as a boarder.
I am glad you have got brothers, Alice.
I lived with Lord Henshel until he died; I was housekeeper there.
The days were getting short and cold, and as the shop door was opened there was a thorough draught where she was sitting.
The telegram, not a long one, was from her father: "Have just seen Aunt Katie O'Flynn.
And if you help in any sort of fashion, why, she'll take precious good care that you get into one of those little almshouses.
Now I am very fond of Kathleen, and if I could please myself I would retain her friendship.
Even for me to live at home is almost more than they can compass.
Certainly it was difficult to realize that one at least of that number was determined to have her own way at any cost; that another was extremely anxious, resolved to tell the truth, and hoping against hope that she would not be questioned.
Naylor, "the child means well, I am assured." "From what false motives it is impossible to say," continued Miss Mackenzie, not taking the slightest notice of the little governor's futile appeal, "you have decided to wreck your own life and to ruin the school.
Patrick's Day in the Morning." Kathleen trembled.
If you lived on our estate, I would dress you myself.
Is not my father a sort of king in old Ireland?
Of course I love you, Cassie.
Miss Ravenscroft meanwhile stood waiting.
Nevertheless she had always been pretty firm, and pretty well resolved to do what she thought right.
"I presume I am talking to Miss O'Flynn?
She went away with a horrid, stiff, pokery girl called Cassandra Weldon.
Ruth was waiting for her just outside the gates.
I know it when I see it.
There were the girls who attended the school in the ordinary way, and there were the girls who were drafted on to the foundation from lower schools.
Hopkins was on her way home after doing a little shopping on her own account.
I may not be in until late.
There's no one now to help me with a bit of mending, and all your things are getting so racketed through." "What kept you, mother?" said Susy, ignoring her mother's speech.
Susy, who had been crying in the shop, also appeared on the scene.
I have come here for her.
He was the only child I ever had, and if I live to be a hundred I sha'n't get over his death.
Didn't you see her go?
Hopkins was getting in fresh stock that morning, and the little shop looked brighter and fresher than it had done for some time.
You had best let me go, mother.
She entered her mother's shop to encounter the flushed and much-perturbed face of her parent.
But I commanded." "I know, I tried to explain, but she is new to school and--and spoilt." "She must be." Miss Ravenscroft was silent for a minute.
Ruth was quietly although shabbily dressed; but she had on gloves, a neat hat, and a neat necktie.
He had rather shallow blue eyes and a wide mouth, but his whole expression was honest and full of fun.
She drew her basket of mending towards her, put stitch after stitch into the shabby garments, and thought all the time of Kathleen with her bright face and beautiful, merry eyes.
I raced her across the common, and then to get rid of her I climbed up into an oak-tree.
Her grimace was so comical that all the small girls in the class burst out laughing.
He gave a sigh of contentment, drew the lamp a little nearer, and was lost for the time being.
I call David a broth of a boy.
Still, once she joins she'll have to obey our rules, and I expect our queen will make them somewhat stringent." A clock from a neighboring church struck the half-hour.
Now then, eat your own dinner, Susy, and be quick.
I must go to see Aunt Katie, and it isn't convenient for the Tennants to go with me.
They were accustomed to see her there, for old Mr.
It is principally because my affinity won't have anything to do with me; she is attaching herself to another, and that other is little better than a monster.
There was just a moment's pause, and during that complete silence a dreadful rushing noise came into Kathleen O'Hara's head.
Do you think I want to copy those nimby-pimby girls over there, or that lot, or that?" "You had better not point, please, Miss O'Hara," said Ruth.
Kathleen won't let me in; she really is intolerable.
Her jacket was bright blue, and she had a skirt to match.
You must tell me which is your window." "I sleep in the north attic.
We'll have sausages--they are delicious--and a little tin of sardines--won't they be good?--and some water-cress, and some shrimps--oh, yes, shrimps!
Alice's quiet breathing sounded not many feet away, and after a time it seemed to get on Kathleen's nerves.
You were settling down a little, and were not quite so objectionable as at first." "Thanks _awfully_, darling," said Kathleen, dropping a mock curtsy.
"But surely the fact that there are a few naughty girls in our midst need not upset the whole school?" "It upsets me, anyhow," said Alice, "for I feel that I have brought it on the school.
What she said to him even Susy did not hear, but when the little girl returned to Mrs.
Her beauty, her daring and wild manner, the flash in her bright dark eyes, the glints of gold in her lovely hair, all fascinated Susy.
The boys were always out during the afternoon, and as a rule never returned until after tea; but Alice and Kathleen were expected to be in for this meal.
"What is it, Kathleen?" said Susy.
How nice of Alice to be sound asleep!
To look at her, one would have said there never was any one less reserved; but Kathleen in her heart of hearts was intensely reserved.
"Why, Ruth," she said, "you do look pale." "Oh, I am all right," said Ruth, brightening at the sight of Kathleen.
Thank you so much, Miss Tennant!" "Don't thank me," said Alice, frowning; "and don't say 'Miss Tennant,' It isn't good form in our school.
Whether the blouse was becoming to Susy Hopkins or not remains to be proved, but it certainly delighted its wearer, causing her eyes to sparkle and the color in her cheeks to grow brighter.
I don't suppose they'll keep me here.
Alice felt that she had only approached the extreme edge of Miss Ravenscroft's nature.
Well, all right, I'm ready." She pushed her fingers through her tangled golden hair, and, without glancing at herself in the glass, marched out of the room.
There was a message for Kathleen to say that Miss O'Flynn expected her to be ready to go to town with her immediately after dinner.
She is the sort of girl that I could die for.
It is something that ought not to be done." "Don't mind him, mother.
There are about thirty of us now, and more and more offer to join every day.
Miss O'Hara, you won't forget my poor aunt; you will be sure to get her the little almshouse in Ireland?" "Yes, of course I will," said Kathleen.
They wanted their queen to stay with them.
THE QUEEN AND HER SECRET SOCIETY.
It is a chance to get a girl like you, so lovely and so sweet and so rich, to be one of us." "Well, I think I can give you a good time, and I can show those others with their snobbish ways--" "Hear, hear!" cried the excited girls.
It had also been whispered from one to another that Kathleen had undergone a formidable interview with Miss Ravenscroft that very morning.
Good-bye, grandfather." She kissed him; then she raised her flower-like head and walked out of the room with a gentle dignity all her own.
Hopkins's way to reproach her children; she bore her burden with regard to them as silently and patiently as she could.
She is a great help to her mother.--Mary Hopkins, come nigh, dear.
"You know," said Kathleen, helping herself to a second potato, and fixing her eyes on Mrs.
if mother can apprentice him to somebody, that is the most that can be expected.
I have made up my mind.
And when there's some one else to mend the boys' socks, perhaps I won't offer; but until there is, the less you say about such things the better, Miss Alice Tennant." Ben kicked David under the table, and David kicked him back to stay quiet.
"Look round, Susan Hopkins, and ask me what I am to do!
You are not the sort of child who could stand disgrace." "And you don't look the sort of child who would under ordinary circumstances act the idiot," said Miss Mackenzie sharply.
"It is to-night we are to meet again, and she says she will bring the rules all drawn up, and she will read them to us.
End of the Great Rebellion 334 THE REBEL OF THE SCHOOL CHAPTER I.
As she passed Ruth she put her hand on her shoulder and said in her most pleasant voice: "Extraordinary thing; Miss Ravenscroft has sent for me.
no one agrees with me.
"Ah, then, my dear tired one, it isn't dresses I'll be thinking of when Aunt Katie is in London.
I hate her like poison." "That is very wrong of you, Susy.
She marshaled the little party in two and two, and so conveyed them out of the station.
Then of course it was not Alice she saw standing on the platform looking at her with reproachful, horrified eyes.
Go in quickly; you may be in time, after all." The voice of the monitress quite shook, and there was a troubled, very nearly tearful expression in her eyes.
It was, as Tom expressed it, a perfect day.
I am going upstairs to fetch my books.
There they sat side by side, and Kathleen told David about her old life.
It would be too terrible to see you denounced in the presence of the whole school, and sent out of the school for ever.
Kathleen had been given much by Nature.
She was a very fresh foundation girl, and recognized something in Kathleen which caused her to be more subservient than was necessary.
"I have heaps and lashons of faults; but I do like to make people happy.
The little shop with its gay light and tempting articles of stationery, and books and sealing-wax displayed in the window, were quite to the man's taste.
She handed Ruth her sausages without a word, and the young girl left the shop.
She looked at herself front view, then over her shoulder, then, with a morsel of glass, at her back; she surveyed herself, as far as the limited accommodation of her room afforded, from every point of view.
"Everything is going splendidly," she said to herself.
She told the girls at dinner that she would be home for tea, that she expected to be rather tired, and hoped that they would be as good as possible.
Let me alone now." She gave a portentous yawn.
"In fact, I almost hate her face.
Church, Tom was nowhere to be seen.
Susy Hopkins Persuades Aunt Church 220 XIX.
Kathleen stood just where she had left her; over her face was passing a rapid and curious change.
The Wild Irish Girl's Society Is Started 112 XI.
"I am sure, Janey, wonders will never cease when we see you in this thing," said Susy.
Craven, looking up at the eight-day clock which stood in the passage.
"But what do you propose to do, then?" said Miss Mackenzie.
"But what is it, dear?" "You will know soon enough, mother." "That is exactly what you said to me upstairs," said Kathleen, driven desperate by Alice's manner.
"I am rather puzzled," she said, "and I want to put a question to you." "Yes, my darling; I am prepared to listen." "I know a girl," said Ruth after a pause--she thought that she would tell her story that way--"I know a girl at school, and she has been kindly treated.
She is worse than troublesome; she is a girl without principle." "Oh, I don't think quite so bad as that, dear," said a gay voice at that moment; and turning, Alice saw the piquant and beautiful face of the girl she loathed.
But I want to see that beautiful young lady in my cottage, and you will get the money when you bring her.
You dare not fail me now," said Kathleen, with enthusiasm.
Below the name was the device--a harp with a bit of shamrock trailing round it.
"Yes, colleen, I mean it, for I want you to tell me all you can about your land of the shamrock." "Why, then, that I will," she replied.
It would be cruel to disappoint her.--What dress will you wear?" said Kathleen.
Mother was out looking after a sick child, and I had to mind the shop.
A little maid, neatly dressed, came to the door.
"Oh, it was your aunt.
She had all her life been so abundantly supplied with clothes that, although she loved to array herself in fine garments, the want of them in others never attracted her attention.
"I don't know myself," said Alice, "but it has something to do with Kathleen and a curious influence she has over the foundation girls.
"Do you want my grandchild?" she said, observing Susy's size and dress.
You know that Kathleen's society exists; that fact I cannot hide from you, but you will not hear anything more from me.
"And I shall fetch it for him as long as he wants it.
She removed the blouse, folded it in tissue-paper, put it into her drawer, blew out the candles, and got into bed.
"It's only me, miss," said Kathleen, "so don't blame any of the other innocent lambs.
Of course I'll go.--- You will come with me, won't you, Alice?
You see, Alice, however cross you are, I'd have the others all on my side.
what fun should we poor girls have if we were too particular on these points?" "It always seems to me that it is worth while to do right," said Ruth.
"Oh, if I had Alice here, wouldn't I give it to her?" she said to herself.
She opened the bedroom door.
Where does the society meet?
Who minds what a slip of a young lady says?--meaning no offence to you, miss; but I have been spending my money right and left, getting tea that beats all for gentility, and now one of the ladies is off as it were in a flash of an eye.
Her rude words, the impertinent little toss of her head, and the defiant glance out of her very dark-blue eyes caused Cassandra to stamp her foot.
There was a field just beyond, and into this field the girls now strolled by twos and twos.
If you only would come and make use of it.
The silence which followed might be felt.
"It gives for a very trifling sum an education worthy of the very best and most expensive schools in England.
They now tripped confidently along by the side of the porter.
Even if the old man can't square up the ledger, Ruth is as right as right can be.
"Now then, Maria," she said, "shall I run down to the kitchen and bring up the hot bacon and the porridge?
Nevertheless Susy was as unhappy as she was happy that day.
Her hair was tossed in wild confusion about her head and shoulders; it tumbled also over her forehead, and made her eyes look more dancing and mischievous than ever beneath its heavy shadow.
"I think," she added, "I love you all already, and there is nothing on earth I wouldn't do for you." "Hear her, the dear!
I do trust, mother, you will keep her in tow a little this afternoon, and not allow her to make a show of herself." "You are not very kind to Kathleen," said Mrs.
Why should we put off till next week our picnic to town?
Cassandra was so anxious to see her, so determined to use her influence on what she considered the scale of right, that she was waiting for Ruth at the little gate.
The back-gate that leads into the garden is never locked, and the window I mean to emerge from looks into the garden.
Your Alice won't like me; and, to be frank with you, I don't like her.
"Thank goodness it is you!" said the young girl.
"Of course she mustn't go into an almshouse if she is rich; but she doesn't look rich." "She is quite rich.
Isn't it too splendid?" Ruth did not speak.
You will come to no good.
You see for yourself, Kathleen, that I can't refuse it.
I can't go like this, all untidy, and my hair so messy, and my collar--oh, mother, it is nearly black!
It looks as if you were--" Cassandra paused, and the color came into her cheeks--"as if you were running away from me." Ruth was silent.
Through the ages we have been one, and now we have met in the flesh." "I think," said Cassandra, at last managing to get herself heard, "that you have said enough for the present, Miss O'Hara.
"I know her," said Miss Mackenzie.
And the microscope should be out handy and in order, and with some prepared plates that my poor husband used, which I have never shown to anybody from the time of his death.
Dalzell, she must not be neglected; I must go out and see her at once." "Then you will be more tired than ever, and I have not done a scrap of good." "You meant very kindly, my dear child, and have given me a delicious and strengthening tea.
I will stop here instead of running away.
Well, girls, as we have decided to band together, we must draw up rules; and when they are drawn up we must obey them.
But Susy pushed past Tom and held out her hand.
You know I didn't much like your dinner to-day.
It annoyed Kathleen; she found herself watching for it.
"And there is another thing," continued Alice, dropping into a chair by Kathleen's side.
But very soon afterwards the welcome bang of the hall door was heard, and the house was free.
She's made to dance and joke and laugh, and to have a gay time.
I like her, of course, but I think she is mistaken.
You couldn't but love her if you saw her.
"Now, look here, Kathleen; don't make a fuss.
"Why do you bother yourself about them?" she asked.
"Oh, do say what you are laughing about!" said another girl, running up to the group at this moment.
"If the rest are so timid, there's more fun for us; isn't that so?" She looked round at her companions.
"They're all coming," she said, "and you will have to get them in by hook or crook." "You're enough to deave a body.
Hers was a sort of veiled face; she seldom gave way to her feelings.
Well, I am certain that Ruth won't betray her companions." "I forgot," said Florence, "that she did belong to that silly society.
And won't Aunt Church be pleased?" "Tell her that if she wants to get one of the little almshouses she had better oblige us as far as she can," said.
It seemed to her that her soul and Susy's had met at that moment, and had saluted each other like comrades true.
Craven, "you heat that plate by the fire.
Her forehead was broad and full and beautifully white.
He had no time to count his spoils, but leaving the till-drawer still open, he dashed out of the shop.
By all the laws of the foundationers, Ruth ought to speak to her companions in misfortune.
Tennant's house." When Kathleen received the communication her eyes flashed with delighted fire.
Will you do what I want?
Which is the most wicked?
What is to be done for her?" "I like her," said Ruth.
It is about half a mile away, just at the back of Colliers' Buildings.
It was not a very safe place of refuge, for the rafters were rotten and might tumble down at any time.
She appeared in a few minutes, was asked to seat herself, and was requested to give a full explanation.
What would my darling father say if I told him that I was going to curry favor with the girls of the Great Shirley School?
It was barely furnished, and had kamptulicon instead of a carpet on the floor.
Are you on the foundation?" "I don't know what it means by being on the foundation, but I don't think I am poor.
They are none of them much to boast of." "What fun this is!" cried Susy again.
I was very lonely indeed when I came home from India and left my dear father and mother behind me." "How old were you when you came home?" "A great deal younger than you are: only seven years old.
Do you think you fell asleep over your work?" "Oh, no." "Then it is a mystery past bearing.
Maria, who was somewhat lazy, and who had already begun to appreciate Kathleen's extreme good-nature, handed her the toasting-fork and pointed to a heap of bread which lay cut and ready for toasting on the deal table in the center of the kitchen.
She is, in my opinion, extremely silly, and a very naughty child.--Miss Ravenscroft, we leave it to you to bring the little girl to reason.
"Now, child," said old Mrs.
"Upon my word," she said, "I'm not at all sorry I came.
It was now getting dusk.
Presently a man came up and asked Kathleen what she wanted.
"Ruth--Ruth!" said a somewhat querulous but very deep voice which evidently issued from the parlor.
Church; "and I must say," she added, "that I am pleased.
Tom is in a hurry to be off to his football." "Oh, bother!" said Susy.
"You may suppose you are a favorite with Aunt Church, but you are nothing at all to me; I can just twist her round my fingers.
Kathleen called to her, made room for her on the same chair, and held her hand.
"Don't keep me now, Kathleen; I want to get into school in good time.
"Why, Ruth?" said her grandmother, who was pouring some porridge into bowls, "what are you wearing that frock for?" "I thought I would like to, granny." "Well, to be sure.
Hopkins regarded them with pride.
My eyes were first opened by the fact that one of our teachers picked up off the floor, just where a certain Clara Sawyer, one of the best and most promising of the foundationers, was sitting, a small locket, evidently a badge.
I did not care for the society, although I love her.
Don't be cross with me.
I'd dress up smart, and take her out, and get her the very best husband I could.
I hope when you get strong again you will come over and stay with father and mother and me at Carrigrohane Castle." "No, no, my love.
I hated that the worst of all." "I am sorry she is that sort of old lady," said Kathleen after a pause; "but I have promised to try and get her into one of our almshouses.
The idea of my being a servant.
And they had scarcely left before she found the box which contained the stationery.
wherever did you get--" "Oh, it's my new blouse, mother." "Your new what?" "What you see, mother--my new blouse.
I am going to meet Aunt Katie O'Flynn.
You will get to like it very much after a time.
She has written me a most mysterious letter; she has actually asked me to let her withdraw from our society.
Oh yes, it did--Give me your hand, Ruth.--That made my whole heart go out to Ruth.
Church, more and more impressed.
Susy left the room with the kettle.
"I will think it over and let you know," said Ruth.
It was a mile away from the sea, and stood on a rocky eminence which overlooked a very wide expanse of moor and wood, rushing streams and purple mountains, and deep dark-blue sea.
We have such a place at home, too.
Immediately after school that day Cassandra held out her hand to Ruth.
"She will ruin the boys in addition to all her other mischief.
She is the sort of girl that everybody loves, and I am not one to admire a universal favorite.
But I doubt me, now that the thing seems so near, whether I shall like the crossing.
"Putting aside that question," she said, "the effect on the girls is most disastrous.
"They'd soon put a stop to it." "Are you certain?
A handsome old man, with a decided look of Ruth herself, was seated by the fire.
"Well, I never!" said Susy.
And if you get the scholarship, why, we will be made; we won't have another care nor anxiety; we won't have another wrinkle of trouble as long as we remain in the world." Ruth went straight over to the old man, knelt down by his side, and looked into his face.
You can sit up a little longer to-night to finish your lessons if you are much interrupted while I am away." "You are sure you will not be more than an hour, mother?" "Oh, certain." "And I suppose in any case I may shut up the shop at seven o'clock, mayn't I?" "Shut the shop at seven o'clock!" said Mrs.
She knew the moments were flying; already she heard the bell at the station ring.
She was only in debt for the one hundred pounds, which had been lent to her by an aunt of her husband's, an old woman of the name of Church, who lived in a neighboring village about four miles away.
She did not care a bit for Susy; but being a member of the Wild Irish Girls, and not only a member, but one of the Cabinet, she must on all occasions be kind to her.
I can't aspire to anything so fine and high up even for your sake, darling, and you are one of the sweetest women on God's earth.
Anyhow, here is a note for you.
I asked Aunt Katie O'Flynn to send it to me for your mistress, but your mistress doesn't care for it.
I am not touching your beautiful half; I am only in mine." "Let me in," called Alice again, "and don't be silly." "Sorry, dear; don't think I am silly." There was a silence.
David suggested that the messenger boy might have one.
Do you like sitting with the little kids?
"Then I will take my objectionable presence out of your sight.
Finally she gave him his heart's delight, for he was allowed to peer into the old microscope and revel in the sight of the beetle's wings with thin, sweeping plumes, as he afterwards described them.
But we weren't proud afterwards when we heard that he was killed.
Where did you get that bodice?
I have something to say to you." Ruth's face, until Susy touched her, had been looking like a piece of heaven itself, so calm and serene were the eyes, and so beautiful the expression which lingered round her lips.
I could tell you, you know, that you have quite a fascinating smile, and a very taking voice, and a delightful and polished manner; but I prefer to tell you that you are comical, which means that I feel inclined to burst out laughing whenever I look at you." "Thank you," said Ben, who could be very sulky when he liked.
Go off now, dear, and don't let me find you so troublesome again." Kathleen started off.
"I knew you were quixotic.
She found herself getting red and annoyed when the calm, steadfast gaze of Alice's brown eyes was fixed on her face.
Cassandra was not at all a pretty girl, but her appearance appealed to all the wild ambitions in Kate's soul.
Ruth turned very red, then she looked into Kathleen's eyes.
She offered me the services of her own coach in order that I might work up for the Ayldice Scholarship." "And do you think you have a chance of getting it?" "I don't know.
I shouldn't be lonely if I were in the midst of the mountains, and if I could see the streams and the blue sea.
By-and-by she and Ruth Craven found themselves the only girls who were walking down the road called Southwood Lane.
That I should live to see it!--Mary Hopkins, can it be convenient to you to let me have the remainder of my hundred pounds?
Ruth spoke in her gentle tones.
It is the dear woman who sent me the box full of new clothes--Aunt Katie O'Flynn, at your service.
"Do you know anything whatever of the disgraceful escapade which took place last night, when a certain number of the members of this society went to London and returned by themselves at midnight?" Ruth's face cleared a little at this question.
I am glad to see you, Mr.
I am an Irish girl, and the heritage of every Irish girl, handed down to her from a long line of ancestors, is to help the oppressed,' So now I am going to help all of you, and we are going to found this society, and we are going to have a good time." Kathleen's somewhat incoherent speech was received with shouts of applause.
It is an awful pity to have gone to the expense of coming here if you don't mean to do your utmost." "Thank you, darling, but it is rather a waste of breath for you to talk so long to me.
After a long pause Miss Mackenzie said quite gently: "Ruth Craven, you scarcely realize your own position.
It would be a sorry day for me if you were banished from the school, Susy." "Oh, I won't be.
Oh, the fresh air is reviving.
When she came down this morning she saw, to her amazement, Kathleen helping the very untidy maid-of-all-work to lay the breakfast things.
"I will go back to town with the messenger, get off to London to-night, and cross in the morning.
"_P.S._--You can name the place by pinning a note under my desk.
I mind the time as well as if it was yesterday.
We'd better wire to your father to keep the little cottage vacant until we know more.
"Oh, they're both Irish; that accounts for anything," was the answer.
They moved away to that lonely part of the playground which was situated at the back of the Botanical Laboratory.
"Well, Ruth," she said, "have you decided?
Mother would be wild if she had to sit up so late." Ruth was silent.
"Oh, it's right glad I am to see you!
He rubbed it lovingly against his freckled cheek, held it until it got warm in the palm of his hand, and then put it back in his pocket and jingled it against a couple of pennies which were its only companions.
There was an old lady belonging to our house who left a certain sum of money, and the old ladies get it between them.
Ruth was sent for and questioned by Miss Mackenzie, our chairwoman.
Besides, it wouldn't be true, for I have given it to you, dear.
Tears rose to her eyes; she took out her handkerchief to wipe them away.
Have you got the pepper and salt handy?
"And then we must go straight to the theatre," she said, "and stand outside the pit, and take our chance; but we will have time enough for that if we leave Merrifield by the quarter-to-six train." Kathleen noticed that evening that Alice watched her as she moved about the room; that Alice occasionally lifted her eyes and glanced at her when she sat down to read; and when she approached the tea-table and helped herself to tea and bread-and-butter and jam, Alice also kept up that gentle sort of espionage.
She saw Alice, and took to her heels.
I declare I never felt so nervous in my life.--Do go back to the bedroom, Tom.--Aunt Church, oughtn't he to go?" "Come and sit by me," said Mrs.
That sort of thing I should think even the Great Shirley girls would not attempt.
Tennant, it's herself that is crossing, as I said; even now she is in the big steamer, coming nearer and nearer to England.
"She wants me to go to London to dine with her to-night.
I don't think she would willingly do anything to annoy you." "Well, I will see what I can do.
I'm persuaded that it's nothing but a cold.
"Now, girls, I intend to present you each with a tiny badge.
honey, then." "I do wish--" Kathleen suddenly sprang upright on her bed.
"Mother is always grumbling," she said to herself; "and for that matter, so is Tom.
Was there ever such a box?
Each one, as they expressed it, had her heart in her mouth.
The sons of the soil should be her brothers, her kinsmen; the daughters of the soil should be her sisters in the best sense of the word.
MISS KATIE O'FLYNN AND HER NIECE.
"Would you like me to shut the ventilator in the grate?" she then asked.
Then somehow all the girls felt ashamed of themselves, Kathleen slightly more ashamed than the others.
And then Kathleen was so fascinating; her eyes were so bright; she was such a valiant sort of leader.
She turned on the gas in the parlor--it was already brightly lighted in the shop--and sat down to her work.
Susy was looking intensely agitated: there were vivid spots of color on her cheeks, and her eyes were as bright as stars.
There she is, crossing the field.
"That's the place!" exclaimed Mary.
I am awfully sorry; I will be as quick as I can." "You annoy me very much.
Hopkins fairly lost her temper.
It is really most exciting." The girls talked a little longer and then parted.
And besides that, her father has an awfully old castle in the south-west of Ireland.
"Susan Hopkins, I don't like you nor your ways.
You ought, after Christmas, to get into a class at least two removes higher up in the school.
All eyes were then turned in her direction; all eyes fixed themselves on the showily dressed and very handsome child who suddenly entered the room.
They said, 'We thought you always kept open until nine o'clock,' Now it will spread all over the place that I shut at half-past eight.
"There are no two opinions on the matter," continued Miss Ravenscroft.
Whatever happens, neither father nor Aunt Katie, nor Ruth Craven can keep me back." CHAPTER XXV.
Why, Susy, you must be a genius, and I thought you weren't much of a sort." "I am better than you think; and she is fond of me." "And you really and truly call her by her Christian name?" "Of course I do." Susy longed to tell Tom about the wonderful society; but its strictest rule was that it was never to be spoken about to outsiders.
She then went into the dining-room.
Shan't we have fun when she arrives?" "You haven't told me who it is yet, dear." "Oh, darling, you haven't been listening.
"Whatever is this, and why is it put here?" said Alice, springing forward to look at the address: "Miss Kathleen O'Hara, care of Mrs.
I like you, because you are poor and worried and seem old for your age--although your age is a great one--and because you have to cobble those horrid socks.
But, notwithstanding the hat and the dress, there was the face.
"Don't worry Aunt Church any more.
And as Alice glanced at Kathleen she felt that she almost hated the Irish girl.
I shall get a bad mark for being late; that is the worst that can happen to me.
Whom were these exquisite creations meant for?
What is the matter, Mrs.
I should like David to help me.
You are good to come.
"I am so glad you are in." "I should not have thought so." "But I am.
Kathleen in the gray darkness looked down at her.
I mean to take every scrap of good the place opens out to me.
She who had hardly ever been noticed during the early part of her life, who was just her grandfather's darling and her grandmother's idol, was now petted and made much of and fussed over by every one.
And she will; I'm sure she will.
It never yet disagreed with me; but then I've got the digestion of an ostrich." "Indeed, then, madam, I think you are rather silly to eat the comb," said Mrs.
And you know that if you press me now to return the money in full I'll have to sell up the shop, and the children won't have anything to eat, and we'll all be ruined.
Let me clutch on to you until they put me into the lowest place in the school." "But why so?" asked Ruth, glancing at her tall companion in some astonishment.
"I saw Miss Ravenscroft this morning.
I am sorry I am a little late." She walked past them all.
I have always nearly died to have one; but of course I couldn't do that, for it would displease our queen, the darling, and I wouldn't for all I am worth do anything to annoy her.
You know, although you pretend not to feel it, but you all must know how we foundationers are sat upon and objected to in the school.
Your hair is jet-black, Ruthie--almost blue-black.
Surely we can afford to be kind to a little girl who has not our advantages." "Oh, if you put it in that way, I don't mind a bit," said Florence cheerfully.
"Now, Ruth," said that lady, "I have given you as long a time as possible.
Their names were Miss Mackenzie, Mrs.
Church made the required promise.
I have nothing to do; the lessons are deadly stupid.
I'm afraid that must be put a stop to," said the old lady.
I allow--" "Oh, I know," said Kathleen.
It means--I can't tell you what it means to me, Cassie.
"My dear," she said then gently, "you are new to the school.
"We have had old Irishwomen overworked like that, and all of a sudden they went out like snuffs: that is what happens.
We won't be in time for school in the morning if we stay talking any longer." CHAPTER XI.
Here is a shilling; go to the shop and bring in some sausages.
Over some of the girls of the Great Shirley School there passed that morning a curious wave of excitement.
Miss O'Flynn ordered a small table, and they sat down together.
"Well, now that is Irish," David said.
Because, if you do, I will tell the others.
Oh, no, Alice, I am not ignorant in the true sense; but I hate French, and I hate arithmetic, and I hate all your horrid school work.
You have your spice of wickedness in you, but when all is said and done you mean well, and I may as well promise you both now that when I get to Ireland I will have you over in the holidays.
I will enclose a letter with your brooch.
Why, everybody is talking about her.
A few more questions were asked, Ruth replying on every occasion in the negative.
You yourself are an ignorant and unlearned child, and yet you attempt to guide others.
It is a sweet little locket, and I might save up money enough to have it gilded over.
Tennant's advice with regard to her clothes in the week, but on Sundays she was absolutely determined that her love of finery should find full vent.
I didn't go to the pit when I went with uncle.
A hansom was summoned, and the children were put in.
"There are stables at the back of the house; they are old, worn-out stables.
I allude to Ruth Craven." "Poor little Ruth!" said Cassandra.
She bade Susy good-bye and walked on; her attitude was that of one who was thinking hard.
Her pulses, which had been languid enough in the stuffy little parlor at the back of the shop, now galloped fiercely.
I rather fancy that will decide matters." Kathleen tore open the note which Alice had handed to her.
Tennant and the boys, and then with Alice started off to school with her satchel of books slung over her shoulder, her gay, pretty dress making her look a most remarkable figure amongst all the girls who were going towards the great school, and her saucy bright face attracting attention on all sides.
"A school party, my dear," said a lady to her husband.
They stood about and talked as girls will.
If no one knew, no one need be at all more sorry or at all more unhappy on account of her action.
I suppose I must ask Alice to come with me." "Whom is your telegram from, dear?" asked Mrs.
"I am sure, whatever her father may be, he can't want her to come to school here to get into endless scrapes.
The unanimity and harmony of this entire large place is in danger, and the foundationers are in extreme peril.
There never was a better child.
It was good of you to come and give me Kathleen's message." CHAPTER XIV.
Kathleen, on her part, was looking for Ruth Craven.
The remains of a rough-looking tea were on the table.
I sent a line to Aunt Katie to get a dozen of the very prettiest blouses she could.
"I suppose your mother has sent me my money.
She asked me what her means were, and I said I believed she has three hundred pounds put by.
The girls seldom returned for afternoon school, generally doing their preparations at home.
Anyhow, it is going to occupy the time and thoughts of your Kathleen.
"Girls," she said, "it isn't at all certain that we are safe.
What do you think happened?
It was already whispered in the school that their secret proceedings were becoming known.
I will go to see Aunt Katie O'Flynn; nothing shall keep me back." Carried away by the wild wave of passion which consumed her, Kathleen dressed hastily for her expedition.
Kathleen was in a low class; she was with girls a great deal smaller and younger than herself.
It was now seven, and the girls were to call for Alice at half-past.
She ran into the kitchen and suggested to Maria that she should help her to toast the bread.
I joined it at first--I can't quite tell you how--but afterwards I left it.
They won't snub me, but perhaps I shall snub them.
She had on purpose moved close to the Great Shirley School in order to avail herself of its cheap education for Alice.
Do you accept, foundationers, or do you decline?" Dead silence ensued.
You have only to go out of the station, take the second turning to your left, walk down Northumberland Avenue, and you'll be there." "But where is Northumberland Avenue?
I expect people will open their eyes when they see me to-night." "You must please yourself, of course," said Alice.
He lingered for a time, broken-hearted and unable to rouse himself, and finally died about three years before the date of this story.
When he finally got up to his attic to thumb over his well-worn lesson-books he had Kathleen's golden sovereign in his pocket.
I mean to make you all respect me, so there!" "That'll do, Spitfire," said Kate Rourke.
Tell her it's _quite_ new, and was thrown in promiscuous like." "But, my darling child, I can't tell her what isn't true.
Kathleen wondered--she was not sure, but she wondered--if she really did see, or if it was only a dream, a pair of brown eyes looking at her from the station, and the severe young figure and shocked face of Alice Tennant.
Here's a sovereign, which will more than cover the expenses of the tea.--Good-bye, Kathleen, core of my heart.--Good-bye, all of you." Miss O'Flynn flung a sovereign on the table.
My word, this is a nice state of things!
"Think of the monstrous mischief that is going on in our midst.
There was a fire in the grate, and electric light made all things as bright as day.
Kathleen seems to have a singular power over them." "But Ruth doesn't belong to it now." "No.
She to give up her dear little neat house in this reckless way; she to give up her most precious tea to be absolutely wasted and practically lost--for Kathleen put in quite three times too much tea into the little teapot; she to forgive Susy's mother two months of that debt which she owed her.
"I sha'n't be up for quite an hour, and you will be sound asleep by that time." "I won't lock it," replied Kathleen gently.
"But, oh, what an evening I have had!
"She is magnificent." And then both girls felt the little heart-shaped lockets round their necks and thought of themselves as heroines.
It is awfully lonely for a girl like me, who has got dozens of cousins at home, and uncles and aunts and all the rest of the goodly fry, to be stranded.
Ah, and isn't that one a beauty?" "Hush, Kathleen--do hush!" said Alice.
She suddenly put up her hand and caught Susy by the arm.
"I am glad you are so tremendously rich that you think nothing of three hundred pounds.
There were three windows overhead, and one or two attics in the roof.
But Tom was truthful, and he had but a lame story to tell.
"You have heard me?" "Yes, madam." "Kathleen O'Hara is the promoter?" Again Ruth was silent.
She will give us both an hour.
Hopkins was sure to encourage him to go to her, as she hoped against hope that when the old lady died Tom would be left some of her money.
She rummaged about, making a great mess amongst her mother's neat stores; and finally she was obliged to say that she did not know where it was.
"I have elected to go with the foundationers and with Kathleen O'Hara, although I don't care for the society, and I don't want to belong to the girls who band themselves together against the paying girls.
It will be all right.
"Come, my pet, and let's have a little talk." "Go, Susy, and be quick about it," said her mother.
Surely after Saturday no girl who belonged to the Great Shirley School would like to speak to her.
She took off her favorite blue velvet cap and pushed her hand through her masses of radiant hair, and then flung herself into what she was pleased to call an attitude, but which was really a very graceful and natural pose.
"My bark is worse than my bite," said old Mrs.
"I am doing all this for you, you know, because I am sorry for the foundationers, and think it so very ridiculous that there should be distinctions made.
We can form a committee, and get other girls to join by degrees.
It may even be necessary to call a meeting of the Board of Governors.
Alice was standing in the dining-room devouring a book of Greek history.
you will come along upstairs with me at once.
Her name is Cassandra Weldon." "One of our best and most promising pupils," interrupted Miss Ravenscroft.
You were always the bit of good luck--on the right side of the balance--always, always." Ruth took the old man's hand and pressed it between both her own.
Come in immediately and return to your class." "I can't dear," replied Kathleen in a gentle tone.
Ben got as far as the door.
oh, dear!" Kathleen flew downstairs.
If we go together it won't be a bit remarkable.
"Well, good-bye for the present.
Hannah Johnson was about the plainest girl in the school.
Had she not climbed dangerous crags after young eaglets at home?
"But I am in a hurry.
You went to see her; every one knows it.
I'll manage without it somehow.
Kathleen's cheeks got redder and redder.
Alice is in bed, snoring like anything; I listened outside the keyhole." "Thanks," said Kathleen.
David, if you give me a letter I'll--I'll love you ever so much.
Still, I faithfully promise to do what I can." Cassandra left the presence of Miss Ravenscroft and returned to her place in class.
"Half of them are quite commonplace.
Then I observed dear, pretty little Ruth Craven, and some one said to me, 'You won't take much notice of Ruth, for she's only a foundation girl.' That made me mad.
Anyhow, I have a message for Ruth and I promised to deliver it." "All right, child; don't be longer away than you can help." Susy left the house.
"She is a little better than she was.
"And I wonder if there is a sitting-room?
I must be off." "Why are you going so early?
After a time, however, she uttered a sigh.
I don't understand you." "You will presently," said Susy.
Now then, Ruth Craven, will you come a little more forward?
Don't forget that the step just before you reach the upper landing gives a great creak like the report of a pistol; hop over it on to the landing itself, and you are safe.
"She is much too interfering, and she is frightfully stuck-up.
I'd quite forgotten all about it.
Oh, to know freedom and then to be torn away from it!
Now, there is not the slightest doubt that the society which you girls--a certain number of you--have joined is rebellious, has bad effects, and has rules of its own which are absolutely contrary to the rules of the Great Shirley School.
"And what may that way be?" "Why, this: if you will tell the truth about your horrible society, and spare dear little Ruth Craven, and make Cassandra Weldon happy." "I don't care twopence about your tiresome Cassandra; but little Ruth--what ails her?" "The governors are going to insist upon her telling what she knows." "But she won't," said Kathleen, laughing merrily.
I will, with a heart and a half.
I do admire her just!" The shop-bell rang.
Cassandra Weldon noticed it first of all.
Kathleen went to school quite prepared to carry out her promise to Susy Hopkins.
She then went on to attend to other duties.
What sort of lessons are they going to put into that smart little head of yours?" "Oh, all the best things, grandfather--French, German, English in all its branches, music, and Latin if I like.
"Now don't be angry, for you don't know how to manage it.
When that young lady left the house she ran back to the Tennants'.
_"Rule Two._ If possible, never to quarrel each with the other." This rule also was received with acclamations.
Kathleen gave a puzzled glance around her for a minute, then walked boldly up to a porter, asked him to direct her to the proper place to book for London.
If they all like me, why shouldn't you?" Alice made no reply.
She dressed with her usual scrupulous neatness, and after hesitating for a moment, put on her best Sunday serge dress.
I thought my duty was to my aunt." Miss Ravenscroft was silent for a minute.
I will stay for a bit and see what I can make of the foundation girls." "The foundation girls?" "Oh, yes; don't ask me to explain.
Would you like to come?" "That I would." "I'll write to father and ask him if you may." "Miss, it would be wonderful." "You'd be very picturesque amongst them," said Kathleen, gazing at Mrs.
"But she has touched me pretty often.
To her amazement, she saw quite a crowd of people waiting outside, and amongst them was Mrs.
No, no, daddy, your Kathleen will be your Kathleen to the end--always loving, always daring, always true, but always rebellious; the best and the worst.
Tom arrived at the door with the wheelbarrow about two o'clock.
What I call amateur music can't be allowed here." "Will this be allowed?" said Kathleen.
She banged-to the door, and standing by it for a moment, drew the bolt.
I like you very much, Ruth, but you really need not interfere with me." "I should think not indeed," said Miss O'Flynn.
I must be back at school by half-past two.
Kathleen was walking across the common.
It was a quarter past eight.
This is awful!" "I don't see why you should go, Aunt Katie," said Kathleen.
"Mother always keeps a supply of stamps in the till." She turned to the till as she spoke, and for the first time noticed that the drawer was open.
Kate rushed up to her.
"If Miss Kathleen will do something for Aunt Church, it stands to reason that Aunt Church won't be hard on us." Susy made no answer to this.
But I want you more than anybody else.
Her speech was not loud, but it could be heard to the end of the great hall.
What is that I see?
But Kathleen O'Hara, bad as she is, cannot endure this last insult.
Accordingly she and Ruth left the Hôtel Métropole, and the aunt and niece found themselves alone.
Cassandra heard her, but she took not the slightest notice.
She trod on air as she went down the street, and when she finally let herself into her mother's little shop, locked the door after her, and went softly upstairs, her heart was beating so loud that she hardly knew herself.
Susy preceded her, carrying the little paraffin lamp.
"I know you are kind, and you are very pretty." "Why, then, darling," said Kathleen, "is it the Blarney Stone you have kissed?
I wish I was back in the old country.
I always liked you very well, Susan; not so much as Tom, but you are quite to my liking, all things considered." "No, you never liked me, Aunt Church," said Susy; "but I will fill the kettle if you have a fancy--although perhaps I won't be able to stay to have that cup of tea that you seem all of a sudden willing to give me." Mrs.
It would be a pity to harden her or hold her up to public disgrace.
Church received them figuratively with open arms.
Now I hear Alice's step.
The other girls who join the society will be looked after by you; you will instruct them in our rules, and you will help them to be good members of a most important society.
You must turn the tap over it and wash it as clean as clean.
She lived alone and hoarded her money.
Isn't she going with you?" Alice threw up her hands.
The next morning Kathleen O'Hara was downstairs betimes.
"And that is the sort of girl I have exchanged for daddy and the mother and the boys," thought the Irish girl.
The darling girl--I will give her something.
Yes, I suppose I am uncivilised, and I never want to be anything else.
"You can't go about the world if you are stupid and ignorant." "Can't I?" exclaimed Kathleen, and she flashed her eyes at Alice and made her feel, as she said afterwards, quite uncanny.
It was quite, quite impossible to suppose that anything so monstrously unfair as that a little girl should be expelled from the school could happen.
She asked me questions with regard to you and your doings which, of course, I could not answer; but you will have to answer them.
Those horrid, stuck-up paying girls don't want you; and we do.
I like potatoes better than anything in the world.
The girls who are rebellious in the school must be exposed; their conduct must be investigated, and a very heavy punishment awarded to them." Here Miss Ravenscroft looked round her.
Now that's the whole of it for to-night.
"I do wish you would speak out.--Do get her to speak out, Mrs.
My aunt Katie O'Flynn--she's the finest figure of a woman you ever laid eyes on--thought that I ought to have learning; mother thought so too, but the dad didn't much care.
Do you know, Alice, you haven't got at all nice manners.
She looked up as though moved to say something.
Craven did not keep any servants.
"You and I will have some fun, perhaps, this afternoon," she said.
"Really this is provoking." "Oh, mother, it isn't worth while fretting about her.
Amongst the many girls who attended the Great Shirley School was one who was known by the name of Cassandra Weldon.
He will borrow a wheelbarrow, and all the things can be stacked away tidily into it, and he will take them straight off to Aunt Church's house with you immediately after dinner.
Presently three foundation girls entered the gates side by side and glanced up at her.
I must go back to granny now.
It was addressed to Kathleen.
All through the walk Susy chatted for the benefit of her companion.
"I was never _very_ naughty with Michael," she said to herself.
The wilfullness of young folks in these days is past enduring.
Oh dear, things are turning out lovely!
If Kathleen would only be quick she might still have time.
WIT AND GENIUS: THE PLAN PROPOUNDED.
I shall go home to father and mother and tell them I am not suited for a school like this.
"I am very much obliged to you, Kathleen; you have made a great difference in my life." The two girls parted just by the turnstile.
Rose produced a packet of sticky sweetmeat, and a moment later the four were sucking peppermint toffee and making themselves thoroughly objectionable to their neighbors.
Will you take this young lady under your wing?" "Didn't I say we were to be mates, dear?" said Kathleen O'Hara; and as they passed from the great hall, Kathleen's hand was still fondly linked on Ruth's arm.
She offered me a very great help.
I keep saying to them that it is because you are Irish and don't know frolic from serious mischief.
I trust you with my house and property, and you leave the shop without any one in it Did you lock the till?" Susy had an unpleasant memory of having found the till open when she returned to attend to a customer.
There's many a small business like mine which, when built up, means a great big business and much wealth.
"And what on earth were you whispering about to yourself when I came in?" "I am going to work with her.
"I wish I could help you, mother.
"I expect you will punish me for this, Miss Spicer, but I am sorry--I can't help myself." Strange to say, Miss Spicer did not punish her.
She had one massive diamond ring on the third finger.
The girls themselves will have forgiveness." Miss Ravenscroft again paused.
Tom had a scrap of dinner and then ran off to see Aunt Church.
It doesn't look out on to the street; and I can't--I can't possibly do it." "You can come down and wait for me in the hall." "How can I?" "When the tired one goes to bed, you can come down.
Mother has gone out for the day; we will have a whole delightful afternoon to ourselves.
The idea which she had formulated in the old quarry spread like wildfire amongst the foundationers; but Kathleen was determined not to have another meeting for nearly a week.
She offered to give me the services of her coach, Miss Renshaw, to work up for the Ayldice Scholarship.
Her grandfather got better; his heart was never broken by the knowledge of that terrible disgrace which the child so feared that she would bring him.
I have no learning, and I never want to have any, and what's more--" "Hush, girls!
"I wish the little Irish girl wouldn't make us figures of fun," said Ben, speaking in an annoyed tone.
Church with her ablutions, she produced a clean cap and a little black shawl.
"It there anything the matter, Alice?" she asked.
"They'll be coming out now," said Mrs.
Tennant, "because I think it will help you.
But it's the first of the month, and she was never behindhand--I will say that--in her payments before." "She's fretting past bearing," said Tom.
But you have seen such a lot of life, haven't you?" "Miss, I can't express all the tales I could tell.
She is going to be a great power in the land, is that child, with her beauty and her talent; there's nothing she can't aspire to." "Now don't you be a silly old man," said Mrs.
"Then I want to find that dear little girl, who is so beautiful that I love her and can't get her out of my head.
I'll promise that I will never be naughty again after to-day." Mrs.
Don't you know for yourself that you are my affinity--my chosen friend, my beloved?
Church, who would have given her niece unlimited time to return the money had there been a real, proper, bloodthirsty burglary, was not at all inclined to show mercy when the affair dwindled down into an unknown thief taking a small sum of money out of the till.
"I will give you five shillings.
"I was with a girl to-day who is fifty times too good for me." "What nonsense you are talking, Cassandra!
Then Susy began to observe it.
The other ladies also looked as they usually did, except that Mrs.
Miss Ravenscroft would do anything to catch us; but Aunt Church says that if you go into the yard she doesn't think you will be seen or heard.--May I take the girls into the yard, Kathleen?
"What a wild, undisciplined, handsome creature she is!
That is the real joy of it.
By-and-by she reached the window-sill.
"She'd give all the world to be able to pay you up, but she ain't got the money, and that's a fact.
But beyond the mere beauty of feature Kathleen had to a remarkable degree the far more fascinating beauty of expression: her face was capable of almost every shade of emotion, being sorrowful and pathetic one moment, and brimful of irrepressible mirth and roguery the next.
The girl was extremely clever, with a sort of all-round talent which was most remarkable; for in addition to many excellent accomplishments, she was distinctly musical.
I did not suppose one was to be found in this horrid part of the world.
They must all congregate in the yard, and you shall look on.
It was just before she was fifteen that Kathleen's aunt, a maiden lady from Dublin, who rejoiced in the truly Irish name of O'Flynn, came to see them, remarked on Kathleen's wild, unkempt appearance, declared that the girl would be a downright beauty when she was eighteen, said that no one would tolerate such a want of knowledge in the present day, and advised that she should go to school.
It only needed a brave heart and a firm foot, and courage which nothing could daunt; and the other girls, the thirty-eight who were to join Kathleen and Susy, would keep them company.
They looked regretful, but saw nothing for it but to go.
Miss Mackenzie glanced at the other ladies.
The old lady looked very nice; but, of course, she is quite a common person.
Hopkins, "but I confess I don't know anything about him." "Well, he and his old wife have got this one beautiful grandchild, and she has joined the foundationers at the Great Shirley School.
"Will you follow me, miss?" she said.
She tried to believe that she was enjoying herself and was having a right good time.
I must get back to the school again by half-past two.
If only she would take a real interest in her work I should have hopes of her." Now Cassandra Weldon had come to the school that day with the intention of asking Ruth Craven to come home with her.
"You must not say unkind things." "Don't trouble to reprove her, David," called out Alice in a calm and lofty tone.
Perhaps one of the porters can tell me when there is a train to Merrifield.
Don't give me any of your sauce, but just answer a straight question.
I hope you will be very quick, for I am rather sleepy and intend to go to bed soon." "I hope you won't do it again, that's all." "Do what again?" asked Kathleen.
She was amazed to see that good woman, as at that hour she was usually busily engaged in her shop.
But it is not Aunt Church's affair.
No fear; nothing will go wrong.
"This is such a lovely day," said Kathleen, "and somehow I feel so downright happy.
"You are going to stay with me to-night.
"'It's putting a bit of color into your cheeks.
I want your promise." "But I have nothing to say." "You are not stupid, Kathleen O'Hara--I can see that--and I should hope you were too much of a lady to be impertinent.
The mistress had again to come forward and ask what was wrong.
No, that isn't the shoe you want; here it is.
She went so far as to beg and implore of Kathleen, but Kathleen was imperturbable.
As Ruth came in he turned and smiled at her.
Kathleen--I will always love you and be faithful to you--but I can't give up the scholarship." "I don't want you to," said Kathleen; "but why shouldn't you belong to me and yet take the scholarship?
But not only should the great lady of Carrigrohane love her Irish friends, but men and women, both youths and children, but she should love others who needed her help.
Do you mind if I put my hand on your hair and stroke it just because of grandfather?" "Ah, my dear, you may do what you like," said the old man.
This road led right into the centre of the shops where Susy's mother lived.
You are a perfect plague to me, and that is the truth, Alice Tennant." Alice poured some water into her basin, washed her hands, and went downstairs.
Let me in immediately." "What a nuisance it all is!" thought Kathleen.
She moved restlessly in her bed.
So was your father's hair, my child.
She is just perfectly splendid.
I can fancy I am back in old Ireland." Mrs.
"It is influencing a number of girls who can be very easily impressed, and who form a very important part of this school.
Is anything the matter?" "Kiss me," said Ruth.
I suppose it is wicked, but then that makes it rather more fascinating." "We are in the queen's Cabinet, bless her, the duck!" said Susy Hopkins.
Here's Aunt Church going, and wondering why you have deserted her during the last hour." "That's just like you, Mary Hopkins," said old Mrs.
I think it is on account of the day." They had now reached the little path which led up to the cottage.
Kathleen waited until her footsteps had died away, and then she descended from the oak-tree.
She was glad of the pain; it kept her from screaming aloud.
Oh, you poor girl, how tired you look!" Maria, whom Alice never noticed, looked with adoring eyes at beautiful Kathleen.
Presently she stooped down and whispered to this small girl: "I hate school; don't you?" "Y--es," was the timid reply.
It is more handy for me to say Susan than Hopkins.
It is the ecstacy of shocking the prim Alice!
I am decidedly fond of little Ruth Craven.
"Let them say." "Well, that's what I think; and I dare say half of it is untrue," said little Janey Ford.
You had all the world to choose from.
THE WILD IRISH GIRLS' SOCIETY IS STARTED.
"So your are not learning much?" "I am getting on with my music.
"The top of the morning to you, my honey!
it's I who pine to be home again." "It will broaden your mind, Kathleen, and improve you.
I can't tell you how splendidly I have planned things.
But had I the choice I would have stayed with Kathleen." "Well, it is all a mystery to me," said Cassandra.
I promised Kathleen most faithfully that I would deliver her message.
Kathleen O'Hara darted from one group to another, smiled at one set of girls, patted the shoulder of a favorite girl in another group, laughed one time, said an emphatic word to another, and presently disappeared, accompanied by Susy Hopkins.
"Let me in at once, Kathleen," she cried.
"Perhaps fowls would do as well," she said.
When she stopped, tears were running down her cheeks.
We will have a rollicking good time--a splendid time.
We did an awful thing coming to town; I know we did, and I feel--oh, detestable!" Kathleen bent her head forward, covered it with her hands, and sat still.
But each foundation girl--at least each who had joined the Wild Irish Girls--pressed her hand against the front of her dress, so as really to be certain that the little locket, the dear little talisman of her order, was safe in its place; and each girl felt naughty and good at the same time, anxious to please Kathleen and anxious to adhere to the rules of the school, and each girl resolved that, if she had to choose between the school and Kathleen, she would throw the school over and give allegiance to the queen of the society.
They are completely out of my control, and I know for a fact that they do not care to please any one except Kathleen O'Hara." "Of course our duty is plain," said Miss Mackenzie.
But she has written me such a queer letter, and implored and besought of me not to come to see her, that I am forced to accede to her wishes.
I promised Miss Dove that I'd see you through your tasks.--You know, mother," continued Alice, "Kathleen is not very advanced for her age, and Miss Dove wants to get her into a proper class as quickly as possible; therefore she is to be coached a little, and I have undertaken to do it.--You will come with me, Kathleen?
She snuggled close up to Kate and slipped her hand through her arm.
And what with new-laid eggs, and tea with cream in it, and loaf-sugar, why, I think that's about enough." "So it is, mother; and it's beautiful.
"How do you do, Miss O'Hara?" she said.
"I asked your darling, saintly sister just now which was the most wicked--to tell a polite lie, or a frightfully rude home truth.
The governors and the mistress ought not to allow such a girl in the school.
Their names were, of course, Susy Hopkins, who considered herself on this delightful occasion quite the leader; a gentle and refined-looking girl of the name of Mary Rand; Rosy Myers, who was pretty and frivolous, with dark eyes and fair hair; Clara Sawyer, who was renowned for her vulgar taste in dress; and Hannah Johnson, a heavy-looking girl with a scowling brow and a very pronounced jaw.
You refused to answer those questions then.
We bear it as meekly as we can for the sake of our so-called advantages; but if we can be snubbed, we are, and if we can be neglected, we are--although it isn't the teachers we have to complain of, but the girls.
You are no longer a member of the Great Shirley School; you are--" "Hold!" cried Kathleen.
Cassandra laid her hand on her arm.
They get six shillings a week each, and a dear little house to live in.
"We have every reason to be proud of Cassandra Weldon.--And so she, this charming and excellent Cassandra Weldon, is your friend, little Ruth Craven?" "She has been extremely good to me, madam.
You can bring your mending basket, and I will pop you into the arm-chair by the window, and we can consult together over the garments.
She'll fig you all out, every one of you, if you like--you and Alice and David and Ben and cook and Maria.
But it is essential that the name of the ringleader, as well as her rules and her motives, should be declared." Miss Ravenscroft paused again and looked down the whole length of the long hall.
You hurt my feelings awfully this morning; you needn't hurt them again." "Very well," said Ruth.
Finally, with flushed cheeks and a very proud expression on her face, she tripped downstairs.
For reasons of her own she did not wish to be long there.
"I should prefer that you did not call me Cassie, if you please, Kate.
Susy, you had better not miss it to-morrow night, for Aunt Katie O'Flynn is to be present, and there's no saying what she will do.
They clambered over their seats; they bent under the forms; they got out in any fashion, until she was surrounded by the sixty girls who formed her society.
"I will hear her out.
Church; "can't pay me to-day!
Go back immediately." For a minute Kathleen thought of rebelling, but then she said to herself, "It isn't worth the fuss," and returned to her place once again in the centre of the class.
"You are our queen," said Kate.
Hopkins, and then turned and continued her walk to the school.
The music mistress was anxious that Kathleen should try for a musical scholarship, and she had some ideas of doing so herself.
The driver was directed to take them to the Métropole, and they started off.
"I wonder if she's up to mischief?" she thought.
I'll be in the hall.
Tennant looked grave, but it was difficult to resist Miss O'Flynn, and the time was passing.
I am sorry." "Well, never mind.
I couldn't do it--not by no means." Mrs.
"She thinks that we are just as good as herself.
We'd have quite a party of our own in the school if she took us up.
Come do come." "In a jiff," replied Kathleen.
Cassandra had, however, two more terms of school-life before her, and these terms she regarded as the most valuable of her whole education.
Kathleen had decided that they were to call themselves "The Wild Irish Girls," and this title was neatly engraved on the little badges, which were of the shape of hearts.
"Sit down, dear," said Miss Ravenscroft kindly.
And after I have had my fling I will come back in good time.
I thought you'd like to see her, and I thought granddad would like to see her." "To be sure, child," said Mrs.
She is here, isn't she?" The man said he would inquire, and went to the bureau.
Kathleen stood still for a moment; then she glanced at the clock.
"Speak, dear," said Miss Dove in a persuasive tone.
It is a blessed relief to have two months of that debt wiped out, and I am very much obliged to you, child, and I will help you all I can." "You can't think how exciting it is, mother," said Susy.
Oh, my broken heart!" She laid her head on David's shoulder and went on sobbing.
"Mother," she said, "I don't mind a bit about the winter dress; and if my boots are neatly patched and well blacked every day, I dare say I can do with them a little longer.
"Why, my dear Alice," said her mother, looking up at this moment, "what did Cassandra want?
Weldon came out to meet the two girls as they entered the pretty little cottage.
Oh Ruth, don't fail me!" "I won't; but I hate that rule." "And, girls, I think we must part now," said Kate Rourke.
You might think me a little rude not to come to you when you sent for me, but Aunt Katie would have been hurt--terribly, fearfully hurt.
There was nothing for it but to take out his big and not too clean handkerchief and wipe her tears away.
Weldon to Cassandra, and then she looked at Ruth.
She flung down her books and looked across the room.
I'd like to do it.
As the two girls now entered the house they heard a whistle proceeding from the attic; a cat-call at the same time came from the basement.
Miss O'Hara has gone into this with her eyes open; and she is rich, and what is disgrace to her in this little part of England, when she herself lives in a great big castle in Ireland, and is a queen, lady, and all the rest?
How am I to manage I don't know.
The old lady took them from her and disappeared into the kitchen.
Those girls who possessed any talent or any specially strong characteristic had every chance offered to them in the Great Shirley School; their futures were more or less assured, for the governors of the school had powers to give grants to the clever girls, to award scholarships for which all might compete, and to encourage industry, honesty, and charitable ideas as far as possible.
"But you--a member of the Shirley School!
She strongly objected to gay dress on the person of little Susy Hopkins; but, as she expressed it, she knew the quality.
And she has such a way of just taking you by storm; and her language is so poetic.
Stand just there.--Girls, you can all see Ruth Craven, can you not?" The girls held up their hands in token that they could.
Janey Ford trembled all over, and clutched tightly the hand of her companion.
"She is no more a lady than I am." "Indeed she is," said Kathleen.
She had an instant's sensation of absolute fear.
Even Alice, who was reckoned a good girl as good girls go, had never before come in personal contact with Miss Ravenscroft.
There is nothing I wouldn't do for you." "Thank you," said Ruth again.
"It's Aunt Church, and she's dreadful." "An old lady?" cried Kathleen.
You are expected on all occasions to uphold the authority of me, your queen.
"What can be the matter?" she thought.
For a minute she pressed her hands against her face.
"I am so glad to see you.
You will keep your promise and come and have tea with us, won't you?" "I am very sorry, but I am afraid I can't.
But how could I--how could I withstand her?" Supper at the Tennants' generally consisted of cold pudding, cold meat, bread-and-butter, and a little jam when there happened to be any in the house.
The kiss went right down into Miss Spicer's somewhat frozen heart.
And do you know what he said to his father?
I will bring it to you to school to-morrow." "Oh, thank you--thank you, Miss--I forgot your name." "O'Hara--Kathleen O'Hara." "O'Hara is rather a difficult name to say.
You know you said that you were always losing the ball; it would keep running under your chair, and you could never get it without stooping and hurting yourself." "To be sure I did, child, and it is thoughtful of you to think of me.
The little old lady was seated in her window; she looked very much, surprised when she saw Susy, and limped to the door and opened it.
Do you know that once we walked across a little bridge of metal which is put between two of the stables?
The table looked, as Tom expressed it, "very genteel." Then the provisions were placed upon the board.
Just then her mother came in.
"Isn't it true that you are one of the Shirley scholars now?" "I am; I joined the school to-day." "And yet you come to fetch beer for your old grandfather!" "I do," said Ruth, with spirit.
I am about the happiest girl on earth.
She put her hand to her ear.
No, no; I may pick up a few smatterings, or I may not, but there is one thing certain: I mean to make a friend of you, Ruth--yes, a great big bosom friend.
When Kathleen reached the porch she waved her hand, and Susy, putting wings to her feet, ran as fast as she could in the opposite direction.
She was accompanied by quite a tail of girls: one hung on her right arm, another on her left; a third danced in front of her; and other girls followed in a thick procession.
The Ruth Cravens of the world are not traitors," said Kathleen.
"But I know what she is going through," thought Kathleen.
"The whole forty of us will meet you at the station to-morrow night.
Do you think I want all these things for myself?" "I am sure you don't, dear." "It quite makes me ache with longing to give some of them away.
"I can send a commissionaire down to tell your grandfather that I am keeping you for the night." "Of course, Ruth," said Kathleen.
Special arrangements were made more than a hundred years ago by the founders of the school that they should receive an education in every way calculated to help them in life; the influence to which I allude undermines these good things.
I shall feel proud of myself in it.
But what shall it be?" She thought excitedly.
"Miss Mackenzie bids me say that if the girls who belong to this society will at this moment give up the name of their ringleader they themselves will be forgiven.
She doesn't think anything of birth, nor of those sort of tiresome distinctions; she thinks of you for what you are worth yourself.
For do that thing I will, and as quickly as possible." Kathleen thought rapidly.
Perhaps it is a practical joke of Tom's; you know he is fond of doing things of that sort now and then." "No, it isn't, for I asked him.
There was no crowd at the theater this special evening.
She has locked the door of their mutual bedroom, and declines to open it; she says that as the door happens to be in her half of the room, she has perfect control over it." David whistled.
David was very musical; indeed, the soul of music dwelt in his eyes, in his voice, in his very step.
Oh, did you ever hear of anything quite so scrumptious?
"Did you buy these things?" she said.
The foundationers were standing in knots talking eagerly to each other.
"No," she said, "I don't think I am cross-grained.
I am with a lot of babies; I suppose I am to be a sort of caretaker to them.
She flew as fast as she could the long way to the railway station.
"I do think somehow, Kathleen, that they will catch us in the long run.
The houses were very compact; they were new, and were called by ambitious names.
If you must go, Mrs.
Susy ran up to her room, tossed off her hat, washed her hands, and came down.
It was quite an hour after Alice had departed that Kathleen took it into her head that she might as well stroll towards the school.
Come into the garden; I want to talk to you." Ruth looked full round at her companion.
Miss Ravenscroft looked full at her.
"I tell you what it is," he said.
She felt feverish and excited.
High Life and Low Life 17 III.
Thus the school broke up.
Don't you see that I am reading?" "I want you to stop reading.
In the whole course of her life she had never met a girl of the Kathleen O'Hara type before.
I won't keep you now, Miss Purcell." Alice ran the rest of the way.
Alice, who had determined to come very noisily into the room and bang her things about, to take rude possession of her own half of the room--which, after all, was the better half--was softened by the look on the girl's face.
"It's my poor cousin Peggy Doharty.
I am so glad I have taken steps to prevent that horrid friendship with Cassandra coming to anything!
Tennant, who had Irish relatives, decided that Kathleen should go to the Great Shirley School, where she herself had been educated long ago.
There's nothing like seeing things for yourself.
I want you to attend to the shop for the next hour.
I'll tell her you expect to get the almshouse after doing so much as to entertain forty of her guests." "Well, look here, Susy, you have thrust yourself into this matter, and you must help me out.
"I can't by any possibility stay." "Do, Ruth, for my sake," pleaded Kathleen, tears in her eyes.
The moment I saw you I knew that you were my affinity.
And now, what have you got to say for yourself?" "I am sorry," said Ruth.
These she stuck on the dressing-table, and when she had made her little garret almost as bright as day she unfolded her pale-blue blouse.
We must have a nice dinner for her.
For instance, now--But I mustn't tell you; it would not be right.
The Irish girl's name is Kathleen O'Hara, and she comes from a castle over in the wild west of Ireland.
Then aloud: "What is it you want?
The thing must be put a stop to, and with a high hand; and to show you, my dear, what we mean to do, we have presented an ultimatum to Ruth Craven.
"What does this mean?" said Mrs.
"Well, if you are not in a hurry, why are you running across this field at the rate of a hunt?
If any one appears I can dash out at once." No sooner had the thought come to her than she resolved to act on it.
Ruth removed her hat, brushed out her black hair, saw that her dress, shabby as it was, was in apple-pie order, put on a neat white apron, and ran downstairs.
"What is music, after all," she said, looking full into the face of her teacher, "when you are far from the land you love?
She said she wouldn't be at all long getting ready." "She is not in her room, mother.
I shall be happy when I have got a creelful of them here.
You needn't wait up; I promise to lock up carefully." "Very well, dear," said Mrs.
It will be very painful, but it must be done." "I will do what I can," said Miss Ravenscroft; "but from the little I have seen of Ruth, I imagine she would go to the stake before she would betray those who are kind to her.
She determined to sit with her back slightly turned to Alice, in order not to look into her face.
It is too risky; and yet I think we'll do it," said Susy.
Miss Ravenscroft," said Miss Smyth.
Forgive me, girls; you are all blameless;" and the next moment she had left the room.
Miss Mackenzie bent forward and made some notes in a little black book which she held upon her lap.
Perhaps they had an eye to the reversion of the tea, the sausages, the sardines, the shrimps, and the water-cress.
But as this was for private wear, and must on no account be shown to any one who was not a member of the society, it did not give her the amount of rapture it would otherwise have done.
"I think you have spoken to me very kindly; I should like to have been able to oblige you." "And you won't?" Kathleen shook her head again.
Susy was out in a moment.
Tennant, but Kathleen ran up to her and kissed her.
You are late." "Yes, I know I am.
"Where are you going, Dave?" asked Kathleen in an interested voice.
I have read about it in story-books, and there are cases of it in history; you have one great tremendous fling; you do what is wrong; you have a good--a very good--time, and you know it won't last; you know that afterwards will come--the deluge." "You are a silly!" said Kathleen.
Now Kathleen's ideas of what a great lady should be were in themselves very sensible and noble.
"I have been standing here for half-an-hour, all drenched with perspiration.
She called to Susy: "Come and hold the vegetable dish, child.
If you could only behold her purple mountains, and let yourself go on the bosom of her rushing streams!
She arrived two or three minutes after nine, but still in fairly good time to see a number of dark heads surrounding a bright light.
Nothing would induce her not to work with her usual diligence, but when on certain occasions she raised her head she saw that Florence Archer was watching her with curiosity and affection, and that Ruth darted quick glances at her and then bent her head, with its curly hair falling over her face, to resume her lessons.
It doesn't matter whether you hear the message I have come to give you or not.
It did not occur to her for a minute that he would not be faithful to her, but she was afraid that others might notice his extraordinary and perturbed expression.
Such a girl as that is a firebrand in a school, and however rich she may be, and however well-born, the sooner she leaves us the better." CHAPTER XXI.
I trust, however, my dear child, that such extreme measures will not be necessary.
I shall be awfully polite and sweet to dear Alice.
There is no false pride about a real lady, girls; and the end of it is that she has a plan to propose--something for our benefit and for her benefit.
I saw her walking down the road with Cassandra Weldon." "And who is she?" "The head girl of the school; and such a splendid creature!
How pale and sweet Ruth looked to-day!
Oh, how long the morning is!" Just then a teacher came out and beckoned to Kathleen.
She has got an uncle and aunt in Chicago, and they are as rich as can be; and her uncle is coming to see her at Christmas.
"What is the matter with you?--Kathleen, do keep your temper.--Alice, I am sorry something has annoyed you so much." "It is past speaking about, mother.
Well, whatever happens, I shall be at the meeting." CHAPTER X.
I believe I shall always be a rebel.
If you put your heart at the feet of a body in old Ireland, that body doesn't kick it away.
I must insist on your treating me with respect.
oh!" and she burst into violent sobs.
Naylor took her handkerchief and wiped the tears from her eyes; the other governors looked depressed and uneasy.
here you are," she said.
Oh, what did it mean?
"I will write to dad to-night and tell him that I can't stay," she thought.
I like the shape of your face, and the way you are made, and the wonderful look in your eyes when you glance round at me.
"A plumcake--" "Better and better!" cried Susy.
I can do all those things, and I can mix whisky punch, and I can sing songs to the dear old dad, and I can comfort my mother when her rheumatics are bad.
She must get me out of this scrape.
I should like you to see her.
It might be dangerous to put off our glorious time till next week." "It might?
Kathleen's face was completely in the shadow, but the light fell full on Alice's, and her face, white and anxious, almost made the other girl laugh.
It would send you, with a little help from your grandfather, perhaps to Holloway College, perhaps to Somerville or Newnham, or even Girton.
It was Aunt Katie O'Flynn who sent me that wonderful trunk of clothes.
So the head-mistress had written; she had dared to write to Kathleen's father.
I don't suppose they are all ladies." "Well, you are, anyhow, my little Ruth." "Am I, granddad?
I have it in the bottom of my trunk.
She should love the soil of her native land with a passion which nothing could undermine or weaken.
There was a faint applause which came from different parts of the room, but was not unanimous, and soon died away.
"I will open the door of the parlor and sit there.
Church shook her head at the apparition, but for a time no one noticed the circumstance.
She was without a companion.
Grandfather is not well, and I must hurry back to him." "Your nice white-haired grandfather that you have talked to me about?" "He was ill all night.
I want you to let mother off this month's installment of her debt." "What?" cried Mrs.
You just have your pension from the Government, which don't count for nothing at all." Ruth rose to her feet.
Cassandra now changed her position, and found herself within a yard or two of Ruth Craven.
She is so nice, and so is her mother.
What they do at their meetings I cannot tell, but I believe they are very riotous, with singing and dancing and sports of all sorts.
You did not leave the parlor, did you?" For one minute Susy remembered that she had gone upstairs for an exercise-book, but she determined not to tell her mother of this further enormity.
you don't know how happy you are making me." Ruth smiled and tried to look cheerful.
I suppose it's something a little bit--a little bit not quite good." "It is perfectly good.
I'm fresh from old Ireland.
But you have been a rare blessing to us--a rare blessing." "Sometimes I think," said Ruth slowly, "that I have been a great care.
I rather took to Mrs.
Of course there are a lot more members, but our Cabinet has risen to something like a dozen, so I thought I'd have them handy.
Oh dear, why will you drag all this out of me?
It is true that the bud is rapidly blossoming into most dangerous flower and fruit, but if we are in time we shall stop all further mischief.
"It is the one thing that keeps me alive," she said.
Cassandra was working very hard for one of the big scholarships, and her mother had gone to the expense of getting a special coach to help her at home.
"You must come home with me," she said.
"It is Ruth I want.
"I can understand," she continued; "and I am proud of him." "So he went into the army.
They glanced at Cassandra, and then nodded to one another and joked and laughed.
What a good thing she didn't meet Mrs.
I have loved you ever since I came to the school.
"You are a Great Shirley girl yourself," she said.
If you get Miss Renshaw's instruction you are safe to get that scholarship; and it is for three years, Ruth.
She spoke in a whisper.
"Mum's the word, ma'am," she said, and then she glanced round at her numerous companions.
No, I don't want you to shoo the fowls into the yard, and I don't mean to give you any plumcake.
"Presently, darling," replied Kathleen in her most nonchalant tone.
They're not unkind to you, acushla, are they?" "Oh, not really, Aunt Katie; but they're such dull people.
"There is Ruth," she said, turning to Alice.
School had very nearly come to an end when the dread summons which both Ruth Craven and Alice Tennant expected arrived for Kathleen.
Shall we go in?" said Ruth.
Your dear father gave them to me on our wedding-day--a whole dozen of beautiful silver forks with the hall-mark on them, and his initials on the handle of each.
And for my part I should love to stay." "I am sorry, Kathleen," said Ruth, "but I must go home.
"I was naughty to go out, and I am called back.
I do want to do just what is right." Thus, lagging as she walked, she by slow degrees reached her home.
Would the governors forgive their queen, just because she was an Irish girl and like no one else?
She ran up the tiny stairs, and entered her own little bedroom, which was so wee that she could scarcely turn round in it, but was extremely neat.
"The queen must have her way in all particulars, and she wishes to elect Ruth Craven as her Prime Minister--that is, if Ruth will consent." They were headstrong and big girls, most of them older than Kathleen, but they submitted, for her ways were masterful and her tone full of delicate sympathy.
Alice Tennant and Cassandra are great friends." "But I don't like either of them," said Kathleen in her blunt way.
Speak." "It is true," said Ruth.
What can you mean?" said Mrs.
Alice was accompanied by a tall, showily dressed girl.
"She is our head girl." "She is; and she is not proud, and she is--oh, so kind!
Don't mind those others; let them stare all they like.
They ceased to be attentive to their lessons; they were often discovered in school in a state of semi-drowsiness; they were rebellious and impertinent to their teachers--in short, they were in a state of insurrection.
She opened it and placed it on the ground; a bright shaft of light now fell on several young figures all huddled together.
And I won't show you the beautiful wings of the beetle in the microscope.
Ruth Craven has come to spend the day with me.
"I suppose she has gone with mother to town.
"A cup of tea, please, Alice," she said.--"Oh, what letters are those?
"To think that I shall be sitting at the same table with her!
She did not dare to go to the railway station as long as she was following.
Oh, things are going well, and Alice little guesses what she is driving me to by her extraordinary behavior." Kathleen entered the house, banging the door loudly after her, as was her fashion.
I can take you to her house." "But I want Ruth." "If she has taken Ruth home, she will be at Cassandra's house," said Susy.
I feel almost as jolly as though I were in old Ireland again." She laughed merrily, parted from Susy, and ran all the rest of the way home.
And why are your cheeks so flushed?
It will be hard on you, but you won't ruin so many of us.
Don't you think that you are something like a peacock--fine above and ugly below?" "No, I don't, Aunt Church," said Susy.
Was she not at this very minute more or less oppressed by a secret fear?
She presented to me a tremendous temptation." "What was that, Ruth?" Miss Ravenscroft began by being cold and indifferent; she was now really interested.
They had to walk across a very wide field, then down a narrow lane, then up a steep hill, and then into a valley.
They say if it got to the governors' ears every foundationer in the place would be expelled.
"You are charming, that's what you are," said Kathleen.
How it came to pass it was impossible to tell.
"We will defer the subject of Kathleen O'Hara until I have the pleasure of speaking to her," she said then.
It was his fashion to get up early and go straight to the parlor and read or talk softly to himself.
Just for a moment Kathleen had felt frightened at Alice's words, but then she cast them from her mind.
If Ireland is your native land, England is ours, and we cannot help loving her very, very much." "You have never known Ireland," continued Kathleen.
Susy glanced at her mother, and could not help reflecting that the poor woman was fit to drop.
He got in his rents with tolerable regularity.
How can I take her part?" "You can say--oh, the kindest things.
Do you think you could come, just to give them both pleasure?" "Come?" said Kathleen gaily.
The great bell rang, the doors of the school were flung wide, and the girls, Ruth amongst them, entered.
Her trembling and fear had come back to her.
Her cheeks were hot, her hair in disorder, and her hand, where she had touched the peppermint, was sticky." "What would father say if he could see me now?" she thought.
She's meant to dance on the tops of the mountains, and to gather flowers in the bogs.
"If I could always be like this, nothing would matter," she said to herself.
Kathleen had remembered all her friends, and Aunt Katie O'Flynn was more than willing to carry out her request.
There is no doubt she is very clever, and when she likes she can be extremely agreeable." "She is extremely pretty, you know, and that goes a long way." "Not with me, thank goodness!" said Alice.
"Of course, I shall not betray you; but you must please understand that I have friends amongst the paying girls of the school.
She has got the sort of conscience that will worry our queen to distraction.
Ben and Kathleen were now alone.
It seemed to Kathleen now, as she lay on her bed, kicking her feet impatiently, and ruffled her beautiful hair, that the thing had come to pass in a flash.
She had neatly packed the little Irish diamond brooch in a box, and had slipped under it a tiny note: "Get as many foundation girls as you can to meet me, at whatever place you like to appoint, this evening.
The Scholarship: Trouble Is Brewing 177 XVI.
I wish that you would believe that she hasn't.
Kathleen could improvise in almost any style, in almost any fashion.
And can you let me have it as quick as quick can be?
Hopkins's debt was cleared off; and all the characters in this story did well, and were proud to admit that they owed most of their future prosperity to the Wild Irish Girl, Kathleen O'Hara.
There were several treasures in it: a necklet of glittering white stones, another of blue, another of red, and this little ring--a little ring which contained a solitary diamond of the purest water.
"I'd do anything in the world for you, Kathleen.
Kathleen's eyes were fixed on the window; they were brimful of mischief.
I don't like any of you.
"And what occupies you, love, at all at all?" said Miss O'Flynn as she ate her second oyster-patty.
I wish you would tell me everything.
The face was most lovely, and the back of the shabby frock was covered by hair as black as jet, and curling and rippling in the sunshine.
"I think our home a very pleasant, entertaining place.
There were several other mothers as well, and when they saw Kathleen they turned their backs on her, and one or two were heard to say aloud: "It's she who has done it." But Mrs.
Stay and visit with me, and tell me about the old country and the sea and the mountains," said Mrs.
In future, Kathleen O'Hara, I must insist on instant obedience.
"Whisper," he said in her ear.
Later on she allowed him to munch some very poor and very stale plumcake.
I know Kathleen isn't popular with the mistresses." "That puzzles me," said Mrs.
Here's the train; let us hop in at once." "But where are all the others--the forty?" gasped Kathleen.
These latter were looked down upon by the least noble and the meanest of their fellow-scholars.
It had lived through its greatest and most exciting hour.
"Hall-marked and all!" she said.
Why, the lady who has charge of you." "Mrs.
On Saturdays school was over a little earlier than other days.
He has a headache and is lying down upstairs.
Her face looked sunshiny and genial.
You will be sure to see her this evening, won't you?" "Sure and certain," said Susy.
His father reminded me of his words: 'I'd like to be that for which I could give my life if necessary,'" There was quite a pink color in each of Ruth's cheeks now, and her eyes were very bright.
"Even suppose your aunt had cried," she said, "your duty was to me as your head-mistress." "Please," said Kathleen, "I did not think it was.
"It's a fine thing your getting into that school," continued Mrs.
Ruth got up rather earlier than usual on that Saturday morning.
It was on a Wednesday that Susy sat in the parlor and forgot all about the interests of the shop; it was on that very night that the tramp had come in and helped himself to a ten-shilling-piece and some silver out of the till; and it was on the following Saturday that Mrs.
It was worth coming to school now to be in the vicinity of one so handsome and so gay.
But I never knew them.
"Can you give me an exact account of the rules of the society, its motives, its bearing generally?" The same negative reply was the result of this question.
"She's no better than the others, and she's very new.
It is impossible for you to be members of this society and to be members of the Great Shirley School.
I had a long talk with her.
But Kathleen shook her head fiercely, and the next moment left the room.
"And what can a poor body like me do to help her?
I can't give myself or the other girls in the school away.
Alice was now obliged to go downstairs to acquaint her mother.
The friend had, as usually is the case, become bankrupt.
She had come to the conclusion that grown-up persons were always in a frantic state about money, and she had no desire to join these anxious ones herself.
I have heard a great deal about her intellectual endowments, and believe that this school could be of immense advantage to her.
Mother is rather worried about money just now.
Hopkins the hundred pounds; but as she had really been fond of Mr.
I mean to write to father and ask him whether I may not invite some of the members of the Cabinet to Carrigrohane.
If we don't worry her too much she is sure to capitulate." "Not she.
There's your mother and David and Ben and the two servants.
But, my dear, the time has come when Ruth will either have to tell us what she knows or to resign her place in the school." Cassandra's face looked troubled.
If you have a turn that way I could set you on your legs; I am certain of it.
"But of course Ruth will get her scholarship," she said to herself.
"It is all as right as possible," he said.
"You are unfortunately in the position of her most intimate friend," she continued, "for you and she live in the same house.
On the contrary, I am kind-hearted; but I can't stand the sauce of that little girl of yours.
You can go on, of course, Alice; I will follow presently." "We are rather late as it is," said Alice.
If we had either of us fallen we'd have been dashed to pieces on the cobble-stones forty feet below.
Kate was big, black-eyed, impudent.
But the Wild Irish Girls--surely they were pining for her in the distance!
She sleepily proceeded with her dressing.
I only noticed yesterday that she is remarkably pretty.
And she's my dearest friend.
You don't know the sort of expression it has when it seems to be kissing the sea.
Once the train was in motion all would be safe; they might meet then and talk and be merry to their hearts' content.
He flung the doors wide, and the two entered.
You are a sort of queen in the school.
She is very unhappy about something.
It nearly finished me, but I steadied myself and got across.
She played with perfect correctness--with fire, with spirit.
That's what they say." "Who cares what they say?" said Kathleen.
_The Rebel of the School_ BY MRS.
Church with a critical eye.
Tennant, Myrtle Lodge." "Golloptious!" cried Kathleen.
I have got up my headache already, in order to go to my room and thus avoid all suspicion." "Oh dear!" said Susy.
I shall go off without anybody's noticing me." Kathleen had to take a great deal of money with her.
"I don't want her to get in, I can tell you, mother; and when Kathleen and I were out I told Kathleen that she was a great deal too rich.
"And what you do mean by a glorious time?
_"Rule Four._ That as far as possible we hold ourselves aloof from the paying members of the Great Shirley School." This rule was not quite as enthusiastically received.
"Now what are we to do?" said Kathleen.
Will you--will you?" Of course, Ben fought against Kathleen's rather wicked suggestion; of course in the end he yielded.
She saw Kathleen, observed her panting for breath, and stood directly in her path.
Susy turned on Ruth as though she would like to eat her.
You can explain that she has always been bright and gay and loving and kind." "I don't know that she has." "Cassie," said Ruth, "your goodness to me has been almost past understanding; but I could hate you if you spoke against her, for I love her." Just then a teacher came out, touched Ruth Craven on her arm, and said: "Will you go at once to see Miss Ravenscroft?" "Why, have you got into a scrape, Ruth?
He said I looked very genteel, and that he'd like his great friend, Walter Amber, to see me.
"I'm awfully obliged to you, Ben.
They seal you as my loving friends and followers for ever and ever." Girls are easily impressed, and Kathleen's words were so fervent that some of them felt quite choky about the throat.
"I am bad, but I have my own principles--and a good old-fashioned set, worth a great deal." She nodded impertinently to both the girls, and then reentered the school.
I don't think you will be allowed to be absent." "Allowed!" said Kathleen.
Work went on that morning with much verve and vigor.
I am wicked to-day--quite wicked; I could hate any one who opposes me.
It means that Aunt Church will forgive you last month's installment of the debt, and perhaps next month's, too.
"I am glad you have said what you did about father.
What's up?" "This," said Susy.
All we want is our fun, a little bit of liberty, and to show those companions who look down upon us that we are as good as they, and that we will fight for each other, and have our own way, and meet when we please, and do as we like out of school hours.
Meanwhile Susy entered the house with her mother.
The best china was accompanied by some quite good knives and forks.
And set me swimming in the cold sea; I can turn somersaults and dive and dance on the waves, and do every mortal thing as though I were a fish, not a girl.
You'd best come into the shop with me; there's company in the parlor, and I don't think you'd care about it." Kathleen, of course, was just as pleased to stay in the shop with Susy as to go into any other part of the house; but just then Mrs.
Why, my dear Alice, how excited you look!" "I have cause to be, mother.
How dare they try to make dear little Ruth betray us?
They had a pleasant meal together, and Ruth tried to forget that she had absolutely quarrelled with Kathleen, and that Kathleen's heart was half-broken on her account.
It isn't the naughtiness that I care about, but it is the fun of being naughty; it is the fun of having a sort of dangerous thing to do.
That's about all." "And Tom will have a pretty keen appetite," said Susy.
Unless some one has been mean enough to act in that way, there is nothing in the world to prevent my going to school, and taking my accustomed place, and disporting myself in my usual manner.
It was very unfortunate my lending that money." "What money?" "Oh, I will tell you another time; it doesn't really matter.
Aunt Katie O'Flynn's the one for extravagance, bless her!
Craven?" "Oh, my dear young lady, but we live so plain!" "And so do I when I am at home," said Kathleen.
"But some of these blouses are very suitable, and so are these white and gray and pink shirts.
Her brain is of the right order, and her mind is attuned to learning.
If there were forty girls, their tickets would cost a good deal.
Listen to the little woman," said the old man, much pleased and interested by her words.
We'll get up to-morrow before it, I'm thinking, and take a train, and be in time to have a good breakfast at Mrs.
"Forgive me, Kathleen, but I think we ought to be looking out a train to go back by." "Indeed, and that you won't," said Miss O'Flynn.
Dear Ruth, what can I do for you?" "Give up the society as fast as you can," said Ruth.
"Isn't she all that I have said?" "Yes, and more.
"I was in such a taking," said the woman.
"They funked it, almost all of them.
I don't know that I want to." "I am curious," said Kate.
Now I want a good bit of money; not a pound or even five pounds, but more than that.
They arrived in good time at their destination, and Mrs.
I must follow her, of course," said Mrs.
She read the following words: "DEAR MISS O'HARA,--I should be glad if you would come round to see me at six o'clock this evening.
"What do you mean?" said Susy, turning very pink.
Why, you are sort of Prime Minister to the queen." "You don't think it right really, do you," said Ruth--"not from the bottom of your heart, I mean?" "Right or wrong, I mean to enjoy myself," said Susy Hopkins.
The weary morning came to an end at last.
Tennant spent the afternoon out shopping.
She opened a drawer, substituted a clean collar for the one she had been wearing during the day, brushed out her satin-brown hair neatly, put on her sailor-hat and a small black coat, snatched up a pair of gloves, and ran downstairs.
"He thinks he can make the instrument speak." "And so can I," said Kathleen.
"Aunt Church is coming to dine with us.
Don't you, Aunt Katie?" "That I do," said Miss O'Flynn; "and I eat it comb and all.
To some it is wealth; to others it is a decent competence; to others, again, it is poverty." "Kathleen didn't think much of it, mother." "Well," said Mrs.
She is not coming." "Not coming?
Miss Ravenscroft thought of mother; she knew that mother would like to have a boarder who would pay her well.
"What can this mean?" "I can throw some light on the subject, but not much," said Miss Ravenscroft.
She should make as many people as possible happy.
It's apologize to you she shall, and that before you leave this house.
The rest of her programme was carried out to a nicety.
"I assure you she doesn't annoy me in the least.
Tennant, but I am privately engaged in my own half of the room.
In a moment Alice had put on her hat and jacket, had rushed downstairs, opened the hall door, and was following Kathleen across the common.
"I'd just like to say, miss," she said, looking at Miss O'Flynn and then at Kathleen--"I'd like to say that I am willing to help the young ladies, and the old ladies too for that matter, but I want to know if it is settled that I am to have the almshouse and six shillings a week.
But now I am having a jolly time." So Kathleen did enjoy herself, and made so many saucy remarks between the acts, and looked so radiant notwithstanding her very plain dress, that several people looked at the beautiful girl and commented about her and her companions.
Do you or do you not know where Kathleen O'Hara and her society are to meet this evening?" "I've been thinking it out," said Ruth; "I have had no one to consult.
It can't be at all ill-convenient to you to give it to me when you can afford blouses of that quality for your impudent young daughter.
"It is because I will not be a traitor," she added, lowering her voice, then flinging up her head and gazing proudly before her.
While Susy sat in the parlor a tramp happened to pass the brightly lighted shop.
"I love both their memories.
Now the question is: Shall I be on the side of the foundationers, or shall I be on the side of the paying girls in the Great Shirley School?" "Indeed, darling," said Rosy Myers, "you shall be on our side.
Could she ever forget the fine folk she helped to prepare for in his house?
"And now that you have come we must have a bit of fun.
And you might keep your own little pig if you liked." Mrs.
This girl was called Florence Archer.
Kathleen smiled as she handed one to Mary Rand, another to Ruth Craven, another to Kate Rourke, and finally to each member of her Cabinet.
Will you?" "Oh, my word, yes!
"What a dull hole this is!
They will wonder at the beauty of your dress, but they won't know what it means; but _we_ will know," she shouted aloud to her companions--"we will know that these girls belong to us and to old Ireland, and in particular to me, and they will be faithful to me as their queen." "Oh dear," said little Alice Harding, a pale-faced girl, who loved fine dress and never could aspire to it, "what means can I take to become a member of the Cabinet?" "By being a very good outside member, and trusting to your luck," laughed Kathleen.
It will be terribly hard for the girl if she sticks to her resolve, for the governors of the school have presented what they call an ultimatum to her; they have given her from now till Saturday to make up her mind, and if she refuses on Saturday grandfather, she is to be expelled publicly.
"I will therefore at once proceed to question her," continued Miss Mackenzie.
Craven was seated by the fire.
You will remember my words when the prophecy comes true.
But you are all right; you haven't an idea of scolding me.
She's coming up, the creature!
I have got such a lovely scheme in my head.
Then expel me and my companions; turn us out of the school, but keep the girl who would be a credit to you." CHAPTER XXIX.
Ross had a husband and a beautiful home; she dressed remarkably well, and was looked down on in consequence by Miss Mackenzie.
I never knew that the cask was empty.
The night was sufficiently cold to make them somewhat chill, and the fears which little Janey Ford had put into their hearts began to grow greater and more fixed each moment.
When she got into the passage she hummed a little air.
I used to be noted as the best of good housekeepers when I was young." "Oh, no, mother, you mustn't do that," said Susy.
If there was to be a fray, she desired nothing better than to be in the midst of it.
In her tiny house on the common four miles away firing was scarce, and food was scarcer.
I ought to be doing my own work," she said.
"She's driving me nearly mad." "Your sister is naturally much annoyed, David," said his mother.
For, after all, the governors were lenient, and no girl was expelled.
Miss Spicer put a sheet of music before her.
Naylor had traces of tears in her eyes, and bent forward several times to whisper something to Miss Mackenzie, who invariably shook her head and looked more stern than ever.
Suddenly she saw Ruth Craven going very quietly by.
Oh, how many she was defying: Ruth Craven, who would almost have given her life to keep her back from this; Miss Ravenscroft, the head-mistress, to whom Kathleen's heart did not go out; her own father; her own aunt; Alice Tennant--oh, bother Alice Tennant!
After a brief hesitation she entered the house, and was conducted across the narrow hall into a very sweet and charmingly furnished room.
They're trying to find out all about poor Kathleen's society, in order to put a stop to it and to call the foundationers to order; but the only effect of the fuss is to make more and more of the girls want to join.
It's only a step away, but you'd better drive if you don't know your London." "We have never been in our London before," said Kathleen in a voice of intense pleasure.
"I allude," she said, "to the insurrection in our midst--a sort of civil war in our camp.
It is far better for the school not to have anybody like her in its midst.
"You are very naughty, Kathleen," said Mrs.
And she knew we weren't well off.
She's as unsuitable to be with you as she is to be with me.
Hopkins kept hers open until nine o'clock.
I declare that girl is causing me to hate my home.
These girls made a large percentage in the school.
Miss Ravenscroft was regarding her with kindly eyes.
Hopkins came back at that moment.
Tell me at once." "Bread-and-butter," said Mrs.
THE BLOUSE AND THE ROBBERY.
"The young lady is pleasing your aunt like anything, and she has sent for you." "Come along in, Susan, this minute," called out Mrs.
Kathleen and Ruth, did they but know it, made a most charming contrast as they walked arm-in-arm across the common; for Ruth belonged more or less to the twilight and the evening star, and Kathleen--her face, her eyes, her voice, her actions--spoke to those who had eyes to see of the morning.
She plays beautifully, and they will sing." "Irish songs?" called out Kathleen.
He held out his hand and drew her in.
I had a good time.
We'll meet in the quarry on Saturday night, and then we'll make a plan for a great expedition all by ourselves to London in the course of next week." "Oh dear," said Susy, "doesn't it make your heart throb?" "And I want to add," continued Kathleen, "that I will frank you.
"Poor child!" thought the good woman.
She looked round the room, which was really not more than twelve feet square.
A moment later she was standing before the head-mistress.
The worst that could happen to us is to be expelled from the school." Now this worst, which was really a matter of little importance in the eyes of Kathleen, was somewhat serious to the other girls.
But what do you want to see your aunt for?" "It is a little private message in connection with Miss Kathleen O'Hara.
Why isn't she here?" "I am very sorry indeed," said Alice; "it isn't my fault." "We won't talk of faults, if you please, Alice Tennant.
Hopkins, "for goodness' sake, leave the room.--Aunt Church, you know perfectly well that I am not responsible for the naughty ways of that naughty little girl.
The little lady was not young, but was certainly very fascinating.
It so happened that they had a compartment to themselves.
"You know what it will mean if you tell?" Ruth's grave eyes were fixed on Mrs.
But a sov.'s worth doing something for.
Her mother asked her what ailed her.
You will, won't you?" "Thank you very much," said Ruth.
Ruth, of all people!" "It is very queer of her," said Susy, "not to be grateful and pleased, for she is no better than the rest of us." "No better than the rest of you, Susy?" said Kathleen, raising her brows in surprise.
Did you ever in all your life see any one look more splendid than Kathleen as she stood with the light of those big lamps upon her?
"You'll catch it," said Alice.
Ruth's little face, however, remained perfectly white and still; only her eyes were dark with emotion.
Tom started at about eleven o'clock on his walk to the tiny village where Mrs.
Kate just raised her head, looked over the shoulders of her companions, and saw Susy Hopkins darting restlessly about, catching one girl by the sleeve, another by the arm, whispering in the ear of a third, flinging her arm round the neck of a fourth; and as she spoke to the girls they looked interested, astonished, and cordial.
Church as well as she could out of the bath-chair.
You always treat me as if I were a baby." "Well, please yourself.
"I will watch for you and the beautiful Irish heiress--" "I don't know that she is an heiress." "Well, whatever she is--the bewitching Irish girl--to-morrow morning.
They meet, I have discovered, at night; their rendezvous being, up to the present, a certain quarry a short distance out of town.
In the whole world there could scarcely be found a more lovely view than that which since her birth had presented itself before Kathleen's young eyes.
She now turned to Susy.
I am a rebel by nature.
"Don't you like the sky when it looks as it does now?
But all through the remainder of the night Susy dreamt of her blouse.
They must get at the truth; they must crush out the insurrection." "But it is turning king's evidence," said the old man.
You think now that you are honorable in making yourself a martyr, but it is not so.
Weldon will be pleased if you will go in, miss.
"We will go to-morrow evening.
You think it is beneath me, perhaps; but I am a lady from a castle, and at Carrigrohane Castle we often do this sort of thing when the hands of the poor maids are full to overflowing." The cook, a sandy-haired and sour-looking woman, began by scowling at Kathleen; but soon the girl's pretty face and merry eyes appeased her.
Don't let her hear you giggling, please, Kate; it is very unkind to make a new girl feel uncomfortable." Kate smothered a laugh and turned away.
I could scarcely have managed it without this help.
She said that she would be my Prime Minister, and she has resigned everything for that horrible Cassandra.
For some day she would be mistress of Carrigrohane Castle; some day she would be a great lady on her own account.
Make up to her I will." She dashed, therefore, almost rudely through a great mass of incoming girls, and seized Ruth by her shoulder.
She felt an uncomfortable sensation of being haunted by the faces of Ruth and the old man.
I am obliged to you, little girl.
"But perhaps it is best.
there never, never was anything made so beautifully before.
my people at home made a fine mistake when they sent me to be civilised.
A tall lady with jet-black hair combed back from a massive forehead, and beautifully dressed in long, clinging garments of deep purple, stood on the hearth.
Really she felt herself quite rising in the social scale as she saw her old relative dressed in her best, with the manners she used to wear when she was housekeeper at Lord Henshel's, and with that most appetizing, most _recherché_ tea on the table.
Hopkins, in some trepidation, crossed the room and called to Susy, who was still sulking in the shop.
I haven't the slightest idea how I am to get there, but I will go to Aunt Katie O'Flynn.
"Why isn't Alice good-natured?" "She's made contrairy, I expect, miss." "Cut on the cross, I call it," said cook, who came forward at this juncture and offered a chair to Kathleen.
"I have no doubt," said Kate, "that Cassie will take her up." She said the word "Cassie" in a loud voice.
And so is aunty, for that matter.
Sit here anyway for the present, and let us collogue to our hearts' content." Miss Katie O'Flynn and her two young charges, as she told the girls she considered them, drew a good deal of attention as they sat and talked together.
But you know, grandfather has lost some more money.
She would wear it if she didn't know it came from you.
We could meet you and talk over things." "Well, I will decide to-morrow.
Weldon hoped that Cassandra would do more than this; and, to tell the truth, the girl shared her mother's dreams.
Now what will you do?" "What shall I do?" said Mrs.
But, as I said, I was not displeased at the end.
She was shaking with her quick run.
"I have a headache," she replied.
"If I could only double, hide for a minute, and make her give up the chase, all would be well," thought the mischievous Irish girl.
The girls who have joined your society and are putting themselves under your influence are the sort of girls who in a school like this get most injured by such proceedings.
He talked about you a little.
She is, with all her sweetness, very obstinate.
"She is safe to," continued Kate.
"Ruth," she said, "go and talk to Susy Hopkins during recess.
"You certainly are a splendid girl, Kathleen.
"I have found a friend, and I shall have more friends to-morrow.
"I hope to do wonders there.
And you must also acquaint us with the names of the girls who are members." Ruth again was silent, but now she held herself erect and looked full at Miss Mackenzie.
"The boys shall bring it up for me immediately after dinner," she said.
This romantic abode was situated in the extreme south-west of Ireland.
"I was so mad to come," said Janey.
But, my child"--and here Miss Ravenscroft changed her voice to one of gentleness and entreaty--"you will not be so silly, so wicked, so perverse.
Her delicate white fingers trembled for an instant on the keys.
Some of the paying girls looked at her in astonishment.
Tennant, "and have your tea.
Kathleen O'Hara, walking home that day in the company of Susy Hopkins, eagerly questioned that young lady.
Ruth, do you know where it is?" "I haven't the most remote idea." "Oh, well, we'll get there somehow.
And there is that stupid little Ruth--oh, dear!
The Home-Sick and the Rebellious 34 V.
The difficulty is that we have got to keep the thing from the knowledge of the teachers and the paying girls of the school.
of course it is wrong." "It is magnificently wrong; that is the glorious part of it," said Kathleen.
It was when he was fifteen years old, just for all the world about the age you are now.
But please clearly understand that I do not want any of your ornaments." "Don't trouble yourself, darling; they were not made for you.
Hopkins was selling stationery to a couple of boys; she looked up as her daughter entered.
Now just see that you do what I want; and the sooner the better, you understand.
"Tom," she said, "you must go and see Aunt Church this afternoon as soon as ever you come in.
Well, she is a little witch.
"I can't be two things," she said to herself.
Her hair, very light in colour, hung down her back.
You will be sure to come, dear?" "I think not, dear," replied Kathleen in her most aggravating tone.
Why, my dear Kathleen, you will never get over it.
She never likes to see a smile on my face, and she can't abide to watch me if I dance a step, and she wouldn't take a joke out of me if it was to save her life.
"I will stay here for a little," she said finally to Mrs.
I am not a bit rude.
She belongs to them, and she likes that good-for-nothing, pert little Susy Hopkins!
I am ever so happy when I am with you.
I declare she's getting crosser each minute." "Hush, Kathleen!" said David.
Where are your manners, Ruth?--Ah, Miss O'Hara, I'm right pleased to see you!
I must get to my accounts, little miss, but I am right glad to see you." Kathleen felt a lump in her throat.
Susy Hopkins felt quite the happiest and most light-hearted of any.
And now I think I will get you your dinner." Ruth went out of the room into the little kitchen.
A real case of distress was never turned away from his doors, but where rent could be paid he insisted on the cottars giving him his due.
I am as wild and naughty and----Oh, but don't let us talk about me.
And there's an aunt of hers has come over from Ireland--and from all accounts she must be a perfect wonder--and she's coming, too.
Have you any objection?" Kathleen did not wait for Alice's answer.
I mean to try." Her dark-blue eyes flashed with intelligence and longing as she uttered these words.
The face that met hers was so appealing and loving that she could not resist saying a word.
You have been so very, very kind to me.
She was more and more certain that she had done wrong to listen to Kathleen's persuasions.
Tennant was smiling and looking just as usual, and the boys were as fond of Kathleen as was their wont.
"Take my arm, won't you, Ruthie?
I know I am a foundationer and my education is free; but there are other small expenses that have to be met.
"Won't Tom respect me when he sees me in it on Sunday?
You must come back to the school with me.
She clasped her grandfather's hand firmly.
But that is a long time ago.
"It could be easily done, dear little Ruth.
Tears trembled in her bright black eyes, and she turned her head to one side.
She has fallen from her horse and has concussion of the brain.
There is plenty of humbug in the world; but I don't think I am one.
Most elegant damask on the table.
You will win that scholarship." Ruth smiled.
It isn't our way; and I don't think--you will forgive me for saying it--that your way is as nice as ours.
It is most essential to me to win the sixty-pounds scholarship.
THE SOCIETY MEETS AT MRS.
Now, who amongst the schoolgirls will suit me?
"I will think it over.
"I do hope it's nothing wicked.
Oh, I do think she's one in a thousand!
Who can have come in and stolen very nearly a pound's worth of my hard-earned money?" "Nobody, mother dear.
That must be the Thames.
Her name was Rosy Myers.
Kathleen's intensely rosy cheeks--for the fire had considerably scorched them--attracted Alice's attention.
After a time she said: "Darling." "I wish you wouldn't talk to me in that silly way." "Faith!
I must stop, for it's more than the heart of woman can stand.
Susy longed to keep up her anger, but she could not.
She is very pretty, isn't she?
Let us hope that Providence will spare her precious life.
One of the tiny tots looked towards her.
"I am glad I consulted him.
Would Miss Kathleen O'Hara take so much notice of me if I was not a very nice, lady-like sort of a girl?
I was trying to collect a pound towards your winter things, but this puts a stop to everything." "Mother doesn't know what a lovely blouse I've got," thought Susy.
The moment her voice penetrated to Kathleen's ears, she jumped to her feet, crossed the room, and bent down at the other side of the keyhole.
And then, you know, when you appeared she began to butter me up like anything.
Come with me, Susy." There were about forty girls in the yard, and they sat close together.
If there are only six, why shouldn't we have jolly seats somewhere, and not waste our time outside the theater?" "That would be nice," said Kate Rourke.
Church, and helped her to a large glass of ginger-wine.
What are you putting on your best hat for?" "That is no affair of yours." "Oh, hoity-toity, how grand we are!
"We will then know what she wants, and if there is anything in it.
But the old man had taken up one of Ruth's books and was absorbed in its contents; he was muttering words over under his breath.
Couldn't I help mother and Tom and all of us?
"They're so gay and full of life, and are so ridiculously witty.
If Ruth got a scholarship she would indeed be a happy girl, and it was Cassandra's, opinion that, although she had been such a short time in the school, she would have a very good chance if she got a little outside help.
"I have been called back," she said in a whisper to her little peppermint companion.
Just before the end of the morning she took her first lesson in music.
Sometimes things are past bearing, and yet we are powerless.
Still, the sense of danger made it all, the more interesting to the children.
She put the book back into the drawer and locked it.
Their positions are not so very pleasant as it is, poor things!" "Perhaps sixty are about as many as we can manage for the present," said Kathleen.
You can rest quite satisfied on that point." "You are a splendid, darling brick," said Kathleen, "and I love you to distraction.
I always was, and I always will be.
Church; "and you ought always to put butter on your bread when you eat honey.
Oh, she is just right in every way, and yet I feel that I hate her.
The tea, in a pewter teapot, was weak; the milk was sky-blue, and the jug that held it was cracked.
Be quick!" Susy put out her hand and helped Mrs.
"Ruth Craven hasn't come yet," said another voice.
She can't have the girls--the Wild Irish Girls, I mean--any longer at the quarry, for it's getting noised abroad in the school, and there are those who'd think very little of telling on us; and then we might all be expelled, for it's contrary to the rules of the governors that there should be anything underhand or anything of that sort in the place.
Hopkins, for the first time since she had borrowed the hundred pounds from Aunt Church, as she called the old lady, found that she could not return even a portion of what had just fallen due.
But no remark was made, and the meal came safely to an end.
Think it over, Ruth." "I have thought it over, and I can't do it.
Once when in a somewhat narrow and lonely path she paused and looked up at the sky, and then down at the ground beneath her feet.
Never mind now; don't look so worried.
Hopkins, beginning to count on her fingers, "a pot of strawberry-jam--" "Oh, golloptious!" burst from Susy.
"I don't think even you will dare to defy the head-mistress.
Craven happened to be out, but old Mr.
I will presently." Susy was now thoroughly enjoying herself.
"I promised to frank them, and I must frank them," thought the girl.
Church was quite rich, according to the Hopkinses' ideas of wealth.
Cassandra was remarkable for her calm and somewhat stately bearing; she was the sort of girl who never gave herself away.
I can play all the dead-marches to make mother cry, and I can play--oh, such dance music for Aunt Katie O'Flynn!
You can't blame me, can you?" Alice deigned no answer.
You must have nothing more to do with it." Kathleen slightly shook her head.
I know she has, because I have heard it from one or two of the girls." "But what mystery?
If you will give me the latchkey I can let myself in.
"Here I am," said Kathleen; "and here you stand, Ruth.
"We shall soon get the remaining forty," said Mary Rand.
"Miss Ravenscroft is waiting," said the mistress who brought Kathleen the message.
I won't tell you the plan, for you mightn't approve; in fact, I can guess in advance that you wouldn't approve.
"You can't possibly go back--neither you nor my sweet pet Kathleen.
Hopkins, and had at one time meant to make him her heir, she had listened to Mrs.
"I am quite taking to you, Susy," she said.
He was touching his mouth, which he opened into a round O, pointing at the cake and honey, and going on altogether in a way that distracted poor Susy.
"I am afraid I must go," said Kathleen.
There is some mystery afoot, and Miss Ravenscroft has got wind of it.
"She is just a lady because she is." Before she could add another word Ruth came in.
Think of the help you want to give your grandparents.
Alice entered and took her seat at the foot.
Kate was clever, and she meant to try for one of the big scholarships.
"Oh, dear, my heart is in my mouth!
Church raised her wrinkled old hand and laid it for a minute on Tom's forehead.
The next morning Cassandra Weldon was much surprised, on arriving at the school, to receive a message asking her to step into Miss Ravenscroft's special sanctum.
Then she blushed; then she laughed; then she said, "Oh, it's quite well." Alice gazed steadily at her.
After this she went out for a little; she was too restless to stay still.
Now then, here is the box.
"I left my satchel and came back for it," she said as she vanished from their view.
We will give you three days to think over this matter.
"Thank you," said Kathleen, looking round at them, her dark-blue eyes becoming dewy with a sudden emotion.
don't go in," said Susy.
There's no way for you to go except on your legs, and it's a weary walk, and the days are getting short." "All the same, I must go," said Susy.
Do you ever feel your heart beat wild, dear, and your spirits all in a sort of throb?
"Whatever happens," she added, "he must never know." "What do you mean about whatever happens?" "He must never know if I do not get it.
She wants you to meet her to-morrow at the White Cross Corner on your way to school; she wants you to be there at a quarter to nine.
Supper was served, and was eaten with considerable relish by all three.
You don't blame me for that, do you?" "No.
The rest of you are not a patch on her.
"You are a good child," she said.
Hopkins in an affectionate voice.
Tom winked when he saw the splendid apparition; then he stuck his tongue into his cheek, and coming close to his sister, he whispered: "Wherever did you get that toggery?" "That's nothing to you," said Susy.
But Tom was now making pantomimic signs for refreshments.
Hopkins--she managed to make two ends just meet together, and she always continued to send Mrs.
Her influence was altogether felt amongst the foundationers.
She is so conceited that she is intolerable." "I heard of her yesterday, but have not had an opportunity to form any estimate of her character," continued Cassandra.
I have known her grandfather ever since he kept a grocer's shop in the High Street.
"If we are to sleep together we must be orderly." "Orderly, is it?" cried Kathleen.
You don't deny me the pleasure of your society when I tell you that in all this vast crowd I stand solitary--solitary but for her; and, bedad!
"Now we are ready," said Mrs.
Altogether her radiant dress and radiant face were quite sufficient to dazzle Tom.
"Stroke my hair, granddad," she said.
Besides music, she had worked very hard at botany, at French and German, and at English literature.
Church's face became very bleak and decidedly wintry in appearance.
It would not be a bit wrong of you to come.
Nobody for a single moment believed Janey Ford's silly remarks, but nevertheless they gave a sort of thrill to the occasion.
Kathleen, there is no help for it.
She shut her eyes, folded her arms, and prepared for further slumber; but somehow Kathleen had effectually aroused her.
Maybe I will want more before the term is up, or maybe I won't.
There's bread, and there's butter--Dorset, second-class Dorset--and there's jam (if there's any left); and that's about all." "That sort of tea isn't very nourishing, cook, is it?
I am sent for in a hurry to my sister's; she has a bad cold, and wants me to call in.
O'Hara, and Kathleen comes to-day.
This is going to be interesting, and you may be quite sure that if there is going to be a lark that I'm the one to help you, my colleen bawn." Kathleen and her aunt talked until late into the night, and when the young girl laid her head on her pillow she was lost immediately in profound slumber.
Kathleen's first step, therefore, towards the formation of a secret society in the Great Shirley School was marked with success.
At last the moment of recess arrived.
In the morning Alice called out to her: "Is your headache better?" "Had I one?" began Kathleen.
Sausages ain't worth touching unless you eat them piping hot.
I think she has saved three hundred pounds.
You must clear out, Thomas; make up your mind to that as soon as ever you have handed over the things to Aunt Church." "You wait and see," said Tom.
It is just a narrow iron rod, six feet in length.
It was at that moment that Kathleen calmly and slowly raised her face and looked around her.
Kathleen, however, was the last girl to notice any want in her companion's wardrobe.
We will be as naughty as we like, and we will let the others see what we are made of.
I am ever so sorry that I kept you out of your part of the room; I won't do it any more.
"It will be all right," she said.
She was murmuring some loving words as Alice entered the room.
Church, and she lives in a cottage about four miles from Merrifield.
He had a large account-book open in front of him, and when Ruth entered he laid down the pen with which he had been summing up his figures.
I am not talking without knowledge, and I can't tell you what I know." "I know something," said Tom, and he gave utterance to a low whistle.
I had to stay and see the doctor, and then to fetch the medicine myself, and then put the child to bed.
AFTER THE FUN COMES THE DELUGE Kathleen O'Hara's nature was of the kind that rises to the top of the mountains and sinks again to the lowest vales.
James the Less, the church just around the corner; you know it?" "Yes, I know it," said Susy.
"Never mind," said one of the ladies, kindly; "I will come in again next time I am passing.
We'll be back in no time.
She was accustomed to the fact that her mother was always in money difficulties.
Will you do what I want, Ben--will you, dear Ben?
Of all the girls in the school whom you, Miss O'Hara, have tried to injure, you have selected the foundationers, who have only been to Board schools before they came here.
"Let me alone," said Alice.
Now, Kathleen, standing in the tiny room, had a certain look of wealth and distinction about her.
If you butter your bread and don't eat the comb, honey agrees with you as well as anything else." "Mrs.
She ran until she was completely out of breath.
"Why are they not in their different classrooms?" "Go in--go in," said the monitress.
Ruth was Kathleen's greatest friend.
A slight frown came between her brows.
Make the best of it, darling.
The plan is gloryious." The thought of the note and the plan and the little brooch kept Kathleen in a fairly good humor on her walk to school.
THE SCHOLARSHIP: TROUBLE IS BREWING.
"Some one must have come into the shop, for the accounts are nineteen-and-sixpence short.
Miss Ravenscroft did not invite her to reseat herself.
I have a picture of my father upstairs; it is taken with his uniform on.
Pat, the imp, would help me, and so would Rory, and so would Ted.
"Send him to me this minute." Susy went out and called her brother.
Church was determined to spend no money, if possible, until Mrs.
Kathleen sat quite still for a minute until she had recovered her breath.
When she had uttered these words she sank back in her chair.
Don't let me feel that I have spoilt her life." "But why did you act so, Kathleen O'Hara?" said Miss Mackenzie.
It was now a quarter to eight.
I assure you I haven't sat down since I left." "And I suppose she never thought of giving you as much as a cup of tea?" said Susy.
I do wish some strong influence could be brought to bear on her.
Wit and Genius: the Plan Propounded 58 VI.
Kathleen threw her arms round her neck and kissed her.
I scarcely took a penny this morning, and that nineteen-and-sixpence makes it impossible for me to pay my rent, as I meant to do, to-day.
When she got as far as the school door she turned to Mrs.
There was something about Kathleen--the bold, bright, and yet generous look on her face, the love which darted out of her eyes when she grasped Ruth's hand--that even impressed Miss Mackenzie.
"I am very sorry you ever came." "Thank you so much, dear." Alice ran downstairs.
But Ruth's unhappy face certainly attracted attention.
Susy went to church with her mother in the morning, the dinner being all prepared and left to cook itself in the oven.
I am expecting to have the most wonderful joy all the afternoon that was ever given a girl.
Hold this while I--Why, sakes alive, Susy!
"How stupid I am!" thought the little girl.
I don't know what you have done to vex her." "But I do," said Ruth.
Occasionally people turned to glance at the trio--the grave, refined, extremely pretty, but shabbily dressed girl; the radiant child, and the vivacious little lady who might be her mother but who scarcely looked as if she was.
Compared to the other girls in the school, she is ten times a lady; and she has a true lady's heart.
There was a little bit of ingratitude there, but it doesn't matter.
"I don't like Kathleen; I will frankly say so.
I never had all that lot of bullion in the whole course of my life before.
Do you like England, my dear?
Your Kathleen wouldn't hurt a fly, much less your heart.
"Say, 'I am fifteen, Miss Dove.'" Kathleen made a grimace.
She turned and looked with dignity first at Kathleen and then at Cassandra.
If you suppose for a moment that your wild Irish girl can stand much of this sort of thing, you are fine and mistaken, and you can tell the mother so.
It's four miles away." "Well, I suppose those who are really interested can walk four miles.
Hopkins's programme was carried out.
"It can't be done," she thought.
But as she did so Kathleen herself came near and flung her arm round Ruth's neck.
The blouse had real lace round the neck and cuffs, and must have cost a great deal of money.
I won't worry you at all when you are having your commotion in the yard.
Yes, I will come." Kathleen bent towards the music mistress and, somewhat to that lady's astonishment, printed a kiss on her forehead.
I will take off your shoes, poor dear; I have brought your slippers down on purpose, and you are to have your tea at this little table.
"I'll go and clean it after you have given me that bit of cake you promised me." Everything ended quite satisfactorily as far as Tom was concerned, for Mrs.
And I always was your own boy, wasn't I?
But in a minute or two he forgot her, and called to his wife to bring him the account-books.
Friday was emphatically a summer's day in winter.
"And I can't help going on vexing her." "But what is it?" said Susy, whose curiosity was suddenly awakened.
Kathleen and her aunt ate while they talked.
She was fastening a heavily embroidered coat of blue cashmere when Cassandra accosted her.
That is my position, and I hope as long as I live to do my duty.
She would be seventeen on her next birthday, and it was against the rules for any girl to remain at the Great Shirley School after that time.
And now let us hurry home.
In recess she went up to her and took her hand.
I don't know why Aunt Katie O'Flynn sent me to this horrid place.
Tell her that I will go a bit of the way towards her house; tell her that I will be at the White Cross Corner at a quarter to nine.
Will you sit by me and tell me about your home?" Kathleen certainly would not have believed her own ears had she been told an hour ago that she would end her first fit of desperate naughtiness by darning stockings for the Tennant boys.
Evening after evening she would question her daughter eagerly with regard to this accomplishment and the other, to this change or that, to this chance which Cassandra might have and to the other.
To educate the boys, to do something for Alice, and to put bread-and-butter into all their mouths was a difficult problem to solve in these expensive days.
She was dashing about, putting plates and cups and saucers anyhow upon the board.
There were a group of foundationers standing round the entrance.
Susy Hopkins bent her head and sobbed.
She is bringing a fine change into our lives, cried a mass of girls who stood a little out of the line of light.
The next morning, quite early, Kathleen was up.
In those days she did not consider herself a lady, nor expect ladies to take any special notice of her.
Tennant, Alice, and two young brothers.
But she has slighted me.
"Aunt Church wants to get into one of those almshouses." "Just like her--stingy old thing!" said Mrs.
Presently she shouted Ruth's name, and Ruth was obliged to stop.
You know very well you mustn't be rude to Aunt Church.--Don't mind her, aunt; she is a very naughty girl." "I am not, mother," said Susy; "and it's awfully unkind of you to say it of me.
Where did you get it?" "I don't think it is any business of yours, Aunt Church." "Susy!" said her mother in a voice of terror.
far be it from me to be impatient; I wouldn't be for all the world.
"You can now face me, and your schoolfellows can also see you.--Girls, I have requested Ruth Craven to take the prominent position she now occupies in order that you may all see her.
She is my Prime Minister.
Church about it last Sunday.
Susy's thoughts, however, were occupied with very different matters.
I will forgive you for the past if you promise me that you will never hold another meeting, that as long as you are at the school you will not encourage another girl to join this society.
Naylor, "that for the sake of any chivalrous ideas, quite worthy in themselves, it is a considerable pity for you to spoil your life.
"I mean, you are beautiful for an old lady.
"I have a slight cold, and the draught will make it worse." "Why, then, of course, darling," said Kathleen in a hearty voice, as she brought down the window with a bang.
"That is as people think, Ruthie; but we weren't in the position, and never expect to be, of those who are high up in the world." "I am glad you told me about my father and mother," said the girl.
I have had my heart's desire, and because things are not quite so pleasant as I hoped they would have been, it is no reason why I should be discontented." The next moment she had lifted the latch at a small cottage and entered.
It doesn't matter to me.
It is horrid of them to grudge us our little bit of amusement." Susy agreed with her friend; indeed, during those days she was nearly lifted off her feet, so excited was she, so charmed, so altogether amazed at Kathleen O'Hara's condescension to her.
Is that why you look so pale and excited and distressed?" said Cassandra.
Hopkins was also standing just outside the shop, putting a wrap round the old lady and tucking her up.
When the meal, which was but a short one after all, came to an end, Miss O'Flynn and Kathleen got up and were preparing to go to the yard at the back of the house, when there came the sound of horse's hoofs on the stones outside.
Their faces broke into smiles, the smiles became titters, and the titters roars.
She is always daring every one.
"But what about the girl--the person you are laughing about?" asked Rose.
"It seems unfair to give the cottages entirely to Irish people.
Now, what do you mean?" "I say I will give you my message if you will forgive mother." "Then I won't.
She kept glancing at Susy Hopkins, and Susy Hopkins once very boldly winked at her; and when she did this one of the under teachers saw her.
I brought pretty Ruth Craven with me.
I quite hate her, with all her pretty face and her mincing ways." "Never mind, Kitty," said Hannah Johnson.
"Will no one speak?" she said.
"But," said Ruth, disentangling herself from Kathleen's embrace, "you don't mean that Miss Ravenscroft--Miss _Ravenscroft_--wanted you to go and see her and you didn't go?" "No, I didn't go.
She's hand and glove with that beautiful Miss O'Hara, and for the sake of the young lady I mustn't get her back up too much." So Susy put the kettle on to boil, and then resumed her place opposite Mrs.
Do you know anything about it?" "Nothing absolutely." "But you agree with me that there is a disturbing element?" "I am afraid I do." "It has been traced to Kathleen O'Hara." Alice was silent.
The most lonely and most dreary part of the playground was that little portion which was situated at the back of the Laboratory.
Kathleen drummed with her fingers on her desk and looked round her.
May I bring a chair and come and sit near you?
"I think we are now in possession of the facts," said Miss Mackenzie.
There was a sort of suppressed excitement in the school; but the teachers remarked nothing.
Kathleen in a breathless sort of way, scarcely uttering a word, spread out her treasures on the bed.
"I just remembered at the last moment that all the shops were shut.
I expect I shall have great fun with them.
She was jealous of the paying girls of the school; but she treated Susy as some one beneath contempt.
Her swift feet scarcely touched the ground.
Whatever they meant by that, most people did what David Tennant liked.
Poor Alice wants to get in to get her clothes.
"There's that kettle singing like mad, and it will boil over in a minute.
Hopkins did not turn her back on Kathleen; she came close to her, and even took her hand.
Finally she said: "What are you doing?
"Don't drag my sleeve," she replied crossly.
While Kathleen was locked in Alice's room, she was writing to her father: "MY DARLING DADDY.--If ever there was a cold, dreary, abominable land, it is this where they wave the British flag.
Amongst these ladies Miss Mackenzie was reckoned as head.
I am certain she won't." Susy talked a little longer to Kathleen, and finally agreed to take her message to as many of the Wild Irish Girls as she could possibly reach.
I suppose you have the money ready?" "No, Tom, that's just what I have not got.
I can't bear to think of it--I can't bear to think of it." Susy's voice broke.
My old nurse had it made for me, and I wear it sometimes.
I can't stay in that horrid room.
The hall was quite dark.
"It's golloptious," she said, turning to the child, and then she drummed her fingers once more on the edge of the desk.
I never saw such a change in any one as what took place in your aunt after she had seen her." "Well, mother, you know what it is all about," said Susy.
You can make your narrative brief.
Mary Addersley and Rhoda Pierpont are to call for me shortly, and I shan't be ready.
I don't think you ought to go on.
They have never been accustomed to self-restraint; they have not been guided to control themselves.
Still, three guineas a week makes an immense difference to me, Alice.
Suppose any single individual in Merrifield heard of the midnight picnic--the great, daring, midnight excursion into the heart of London.
And how she can demean herself to call you her friend passes my comprehension." "You are very rude, Aunt Church," said Susy; "but I am not going to be angry with you, for I want you to help us.
What about my almshouse?" Miss O'Flynn looked rather indignant.
Sometimes I think there is a little gnat flying about and trying to sting me, but that's all." "And a charming metaphor, too," said Kathleen.
Accordingly Cassandra waited for Ruth outside the school when lessons were over.
"I have a real relish for water-cress, and it's a very long time since I had any." "You have got your own fowls," said Susy, "so they will supply the eggs; and for the rest I will manage.
"Dirt beneath our feet!" exclaimed Hannah Johnson.
"There are eight of us here, and we all swear allegiance to you.--Don't we, girls?" "Certainly," said Susy.
Craven, who lives in that cottage close to the station." "A handsome old man, too," said Mrs.
Hopkins was so relieved to get the money that she never thought at all of the terrible tax it would be to return it.
"I am in a great hurry.
See, Aunt Church; if you look you will believe." Here Susy pulled from the neck of her dress a little heart-shaped locket with the device and name of the society on it.
She had strung narrow green ribbon through each of the little silver hearts, and the girls could therefore slip them over their heads at once.
"Nothing will induce me to give them up," she said, or to betray any girl of my society.
I but demand your promise, which I insist on.
I am going to set some of the foundation girls at that sort of thing.
Did you ever see such a face?" A slight, shabbily dressed little girl, with her satchel of books slung on her arm, now appeared.
She never saw me, and ran on down the passage.
In the summer a pretty white yacht made a great "divartisement," as the Squire was fond of saying; and in all things Kathleen O'Hara was free as the air she breathed.
The only girl in the whole of England that I love has slighted me.
"It must be very unpleasant to feel sort of peppery-and-salty and cross-grained all the time." "It isn't what you ever feel, miss," said cook with an admiring glance at the young lady.
It takes quite thirty-five minutes to get to Charing Cross, and then you have to get to the Métropole.
She sat down, helped herself to a thick slice of bread-and-butter, and ate it, while burning thoughts filled her mind.
Out of his freckled face there beamed two honest light-blue eyes.
Now isn't that nice?" "Who do you mean by the tired one?" "Your mother, silly boy, of course." "It is a very ridiculous name to call her." "It belongs to the Palace of Home Truths.
As to you, darling, nothing will induce me to part with you until to-morrow morning." "But what will you do about school?" said Ruth.
The little meeting broke up amidst universal applause.
The desire to go to the town on a message for her mother had completely left her.
Oh, I mustn't think of Michael now.
As long as she could remember, this was the state of things at home.
"It is my secret," she said.
Cassandra has been telling me about you.
When they returned to early dinner they saw it standing in the front hall.
Susy is a great friend of mine." Mrs.
I wish you would." "I can't tell you, Susan; it has nothing to do with you.
But why that melancholy note in your voice, Ruth?
Is it true that you have encouraged certain girls in this school--" "Oh, I encourage all the girls, I know.
Hopkins was delighted with hers; she thought Tom the noblest boy in the world for having denied himself in order to give it to her.
One was a rather plain little girl, the daughter of her own relation; the other was a lady, beautiful, stately, and magnificently dressed.
Tennant is not angry with you now, Kathleen.
I can't stay in that horrid school." "Oh, yes, you can.
"But forty's an awful age, isn't it?
The look that Cassandra wore as she walked quietly across the room, the set of her dress, the still more wonderful set of her head as it was placed on her queenly young shoulders--these were the things that burnt into Kate's soul and made her restless and dissatisfied.
I don't blame your daughter Susan for going out with that nice young lady.
Is it true?" Kathleen closed her lips firmly together.
"Shall I go at once and shoo the fowls?" "You had best give me my money first.
Before Kathleen arrived at the school Susy was a good little girl, who helped her mother in the shop, and had dreams of going into another shop herself by-and-by.
Tennant." Kathleen had now opened a small box which was lying at the bottom of the great trunk.
Aunt Church would be very unlikely to get her little almshouse in Ireland, for surely even Kathleen's friends would be very angry with her if they knew.
"Ah, Tom!" she said, "I have got a piece of plumcake waiting for you; and if you are a really good boy, and will shoo the fowls into my backyard and shut the gate on them, you may look into my microscope." "Thank you, Aunt Church," said Tom.
Susy knew far better than Kathleen what a mad action the girls were about to perpetrate.
I want some one to help me; if some one will help me, I will be nice to that person.
I would if I could, but it isn't to be done.
She was about to try for a sixty-pound scholarship, renewable for three years; if she got it she would go to Holloway College, and eventually support herself and her mother.
There is a disturbing element in this school.
You gave me a terrible fright.
'Tain't right to keep an old body on tenter-hooks." "I will tell you if you will promise me something.
I mean, you want crutches when you are forty, don't you?" "Not as a rule, my dear.
I trust that this extreme step will not be necessary." "If she does not tell us what she knows, it will be not only necessary, but it will be carried into effect, and in my presence," said Miss Mackenzie.
The girls parted at the next corner.
She is not my sort.
"I do hope this new school and the scholars and all this fuss and excitement of your new life won't turn your head.
"Don't let go of me, darling, for the life of you.
We always keep the shop, except the post-office part, open until past nine on Wednesdays; such a lot of people come in for odds and ends on this special night.
After a long pause, during which Alice once or twice felt the handle of the door again, the sound of her retreating footsteps was heard.
They all were for that matter.
The bolster carefully manipulated had done its work; it had never occurred to Alice that the form in the bed was anything but the living form of Kathleen O'Hara.
Church had occupied and stared into the fire.
I mean to talk to that girl; she's won my heart entirely." Before Alice could prevent her, the Irish girl had sprung forward, pushed a couple of Great Shirley girls out of their places, and had taken Ruth Craven by the arm.
She will never get to the end in time.
She dashed upstairs, and on the first landing she met Mrs.
it is you that are kind.
He died, and I cried a lot.
Be aisy with it, so that you won't hurt it.
Kathleen had never been from home before, and Aunt Katie had things to tell her about every person, man and woman, old and young, on the Carrigrohane estate.
THE GOVERNORS OF THE SCHOOL EXAMINE RUTH.
"I don't know London at all, and I should like to go with you." The two girls now turned into the railway station.
Ruth came in looking very white, her face dogged, her usual beauty and charm of manner having quite deserted her.
She is my aunt, and I wouldn't slight her for all the world.
But if I do this I certainly can't take advantage of Cassandra's kindness.
Dear, she did seem in a state!
That evening at about a quarter to eight a band of perfectly silent girls might have been seen walking along the road that led to Mrs.
I don't think its fair, whatever you may say to the contrary." Mrs.
He received letter from school-mistress this morning.
She hated Kathleen for having humiliated and annoyed her; and she went off to Cassandra's house knowing that she would be late, and determined not to say one good word for Kathleen.
And see how it is made, with all these teeny tucks and the embroidery let in between.
So I thought, 'My time has come.
Oh, we did have such lovely water-cress in the stream at home!
She caught the eye of Miss Mackenzie, who beckoned to her and whispered something in her ear.
"Just because you happen to be pretty, they take you up.
Her hands were small and white.
The ladies of the town would fight shy of her mother's shop.
Now what will you have?
I can't help telling you so, my child." "In my opinion, it is hardly earned," said Alice.
Perhaps, after all, I am mistaken, about Ruth; perhaps she is not my real proper affinity.
"No, indeed I won't," said Ben.
Susy poured out a cup of tea, drank it off at a gulp, snatched a piece of bread-and-butter from the plate, and sat down to prepare her lessons at another table.
But the advent of Kathleen on the scene was a great relief, for her father paid three guineas a week for Mrs.
Craven, bustling up and removing her cooking-apron.
Kathleen awoke on the special morning after a night of wild dreams.
"I have been wondering what sort you are.
She promised us all sorts of things.
She had a great deal of quick wit and ready perception.
Can't we have it this week?" "I wish we could," said Susy.
If you don't know, I'd like to tell you." "Yes, do tell us," cried several.
Things ought to be the other way round; it's she who ought to help me." "And so she will, and she said as much.
She'll be in London to-night.
"You will be so set up now, Susan Hopkins, that we won't be able to bear you in the same class," said Clara Sawyer.
Go round to-day and see as many as you can.
You have chosen, from what false motives it is impossible to say--" "My dear," interrupted Mrs.
The little sitting-room was a cloud of dust.
"I do trust Kathleen will be satisfied." Alice frowned at her mother in some displeasure.
Now we must sit down to dinner at once." During dinner Kathleen's eyes sparkled so brightly, and she looked so merry and mysterious, that both the boys gazed at her in wonder.
For the life of you don't let _her_ see it; she'd never forgive me.
Kathleen looked at him attentively.
Very angry about Wild Irish Girls.
I can't imagine what has happened to her." Mrs.
and here comes the dinner.
She had shaded the light from what she supposed to be the sleeping girl, and got into bed herself feeling tired and sulky.
For that would break mother's heart, and do none of us any good." "Oh, you little goose!" cried Kathleen, with her ringing laugh.
Tennant; but when it came to wearing a very quiet gray dress with a little lace round the collar and cuffs, she begun to demur.
It was one thing, therefore, for Mrs.
Kathleen saw at once that she was one of the Great Shirley girls, so she went forward and spoke to her.
Of course, as you know, Miss Mackenzie, such proceedings are altogether prohibited in our school." "But this takes place out of school," said Mrs.
On the contrary, you and I will go together to see Aunt Katie O'Flynn.
Can you send me a ten-pound note, daddy mine, and say nothing whatever about it to the mother or the retainers at Carrigrohane?
Don't you understand?" "I am not interfering, dearest," called back Kathleen, "and I am keeping religiously to my own half.
"But I tell you what, Aunt Church; Tom's after mischief; he means to witness all the proceedings of dear Miss Kathleen's great society, and we oughtn't to let him.
Something very unusual is detaining mother.
Be sure you all come.
She tried to forget the fact that Alice Tennant might really have seen her off, and that Mrs.
"If you go and stand by the principal entrance, you are safe to see her." "Thank you," said Susy.
"I have got a lot of new plans in my head; they are all about you, and to make you happy and not so tired.
Aunt Katie O'Flynn is a woman who has real taste, and I know she is going to dress me up as no other girl ever was dressed before in the Great Shirley School." Mrs.
I asked you why your friend isn't here." "I must explain.
Susy had heard of those few people of rare character and rare natures who are, as it is expressed, "Nature's ladies." There are Nature's gentlemen as well, and Nature's ladies and Nature's gentlemen are above mere external circumstances; they are above the mere money's worth or the mere accident of birth.
They knew well that if they were discovered they would run a very great chance of being expelled from the school; for although they were day scholars, yet integrity of conduct was essential to their maintaining their place in that great school which gave them so liberal an education, in some cases without any fees, in all other cases with very small ones.
A few doors down the street Susy Hopkins was waiting for Kathleen.
I must do what I can for her." She sat on for some time darning and thinking.
"Am not I splendid?" he said.
She put a little kettle on the gas-stove, fetched a clean cup and saucer, and presently sat down to her belated meal.
But beauty always had a curious effect on the Irish girl, and when she observed Ruth's really exquisite little face, clear cut as a cameo, with eyes full of expression, and watched the lips ready to break into the gentlest smiles, Kathleen said to herself: "It is all over with me.
I do wish I had a home of my own, and then I'd ask you to have tea with me.
"What has come to the little woman?" thought the old man.
She was a little, wizened lady with a face like a russet apple, a kindly smile, and a sweet voice.
"No, no; there is no answer," she said.
The day was as fine as it had been on the previous day, and Susy chattered to her heart's content.
"I want to read that bit of Tasso over again before Miss Renshaw comes." "No, no," said Cassandra.
Where did you buy it?" Now Susy had really no intention of making a secret with regard to the blouse.
"Is that a slap at me?" she asked.
She was in reality not at all afraid of what might be going to happen at school.
Perhaps you are not the greatest queen, but still you are a queen, and you could lead the whole school." "That would be rather fun," said Kathleen.
But those dull and stupid days were no more.
She noticed nothing amiss on her return, and went tranquilly on with her work.
"What a queen she'd make!" she thought.
Well, I will say that I have a good appetite.--You can push me right up to the table, Tom, my boy." Tom did push the old lady into the most comfortable seat.
The glass reached down about two feet from the ceiling, and was the only light the bedroom had.
There was a look of business and animation throughout the whole place: it was like a hive of bees.
"Yes; is she within?" asked Susy.
It is silly and quixotic, for the sake of a girl like Kathleen O'Hara, to ruin all your own prospects." "It is scarcely that--and yet it is that," said Ruth slowly.
But one or two adored her, and amongst these was Florence Archer, a handsome, bright-faced, original sort of girl who was in the same form as Cassandra.
"And I can't take it back, for you know perfectly well that it is a wee bit too old for me.
"And bought with her own hard-earned savings.
My mother is paid by your father to give you your meals; your father doesn't expect you to buy them over again." "Dad always likes me to do what I wish," replied Kathleen calmly.
She must work just as long as she likes.
In prison she had to wear the ugly convict-dress with the broad-arrow stamped on all her clothes.
"My visitor and all," she kept saying.
And I am sure you will join me, mother darling, in asking Miss O'Hara to stay, too." "But Miss O'Hara doesn't want to join either you or your 'mother darling,'" said Kathleen in her rudest tone.
"Come home with me, won't you?" Ruth did not speak.
Could you not do something to propitiate her?" "Wisha, then, darling!" said Kathleen, pausing a moment to consider; "that's just what I can't do.
"In a society like ours there are always rules which are not quite agreeable to every one.
I will never hear your message." "All right, I will go," said Susy.
"I had best not go in, miss," she said.
"I wish you wouldn't do that, Susy," said her mother.
"But nothing will happen," she cried, "if we are faithful to each other, stand shoulder to shoulder, and do not whatever happens, betray each other.
Her dress consisted of a black velvet skirt over a crimson petticoat, and her bodice was of crimson silk very much embroidered and with elbow-sleeves.
Hitherto she had been taught anyhow, but now she was all keen to receive real instruction.
Kathleen had a passion for music; she had never been properly taught, but the soul of music was in her as much as it was in David Tennant.
I shall slip down and go the long way.
As for her talents, she had a certain charm which does more for a woman than any amount of ordinary ability; and she had a passionate and great love for music.
But I will only tell it to you on condition." Mrs.
Church's supper except a bit of stale cake, a hunch of brown bread, and a little tea.
What a detestable voice she has!
"Of course--of course her grandfather is right.
Tennant had not been out more than a minute or two before David and Ben came in.
By the aid of Tom and Mrs.
"I wrote to my brother-in-law this very day, and I expect an answer soon.
"Aunt Katie has written about it already, and I will write to-night.
"I like people to wear smart clothes, don't you, Mrs.
"But why is the whole school in the central hall?" asked Kathleen.
"Why, grandfather, what is the matter?" said Ruth in some surprise.
"I will go and see grandfather," she said, "and then I must be off to school." She left the kitchen and went into the tiny parlor where the old man was seated.
"What class are you in?" "I don't know.
"It isn't only that she's lovely, she is so genteel," said Susy Hopkins.
The forks were real silver; Mrs.
I have only just crossed the cold sea.
I have a good hour and a half of hard work to get through before bedtime." The moment Kathleen and Ben were alone, Ben rushed up to her side and began to whisper.
She raised herself on her elbow and looked across at Alice.
Dinner was announced, and the three went into the great dining-room.
But I want you to improve; I want you to be a credit to me." "I'd like to please you, of course," said Kathleen.
As a rule she was very calm, but now her heart beat too fast.
Can't you give me an attic to myself at the top of the house?" "You know I haven't a corner." "Can't I share your bed, mummy?
Think, Aunt Church; it is quite worth while when you have an almshouse in view; and you know that for all the rest of your life you are to have a house rent-free, coal and light, and six shillings a week." "It's worth an effort," said Mrs.
She hastily put down her porridge spoon and jumped to her feet.
"Has your mother learned anything, Susy?" she said.
He planted himself right in front of the old lady.
Mother couldn't have saved it in the time." Mrs.
Kathleen passed through on her way across the common to Mrs.
"I presume you are alluding to Miss Craven?" "We are talking about Ruth Craven," said Kate Rourke; "and you will excuse me, Cassie, but I never saw a girl more chock-full of pride.
"No, dear; she has gone to church.
"I must get out of the window," she said to herself.
She entered one that she knew, and asked for a pound and a half of pork sausages.
Kathleen was consulted, and of course tabooed the entire scheme; in the end, however, the elder ladies carried the day.
"What about?" said Clara Sawyer.
She found it quite full.
She pressed close to the old man, took one of his weather-beaten hands between both of her own, and stroked it.
Good-bye now; I must go in and kiss my darling Ruth." Susy Hopkins stood for a minute to watch Kathleen as she went up the little narrow path of Sans Souci.
Naylor said: "Very pretty; quite touching, isn't it?
"But you must.--Mustn't she, mother?" "You ought to, Kathleen," said Mrs.
It is spoken of to this day as the greatest and most conspicuous event in the school's history.
"Not a bit of it.
He was holding out his thin, knuckly hands to the blaze.
THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE LEDGER.
Afterwards, when she came out again, her poor mother had died, and her grandmother likewise; and her brother, who was the moral image of Tom there, wouldn't receive her in his house.
Oh, I could tell them lots of things." "It would be very nice if you came over; and I am almost sure there is a cottage vacant," said Kathleen in a contemplative voice.
Kathleen had never left Carrigrohane Castle before.
What is it you want me to do?" "If you will let me come here to-morrow, I'll push you all the way to Merrifield in time for our dinner.
Oh, Susy, it would break my heart if Ruth did not continue to be a member of our society." "I will do what you want, of course," said Susy.
But don't expel Ruth, and don't expel the others." "But we will all go if you are not kept," suddenly cried one of the sixty, Kathleen never quite knew which; and suddenly one girl after another began to speak up for her, and all promised that if Kathleen were allowed to remain, and if the whole story of the great rebellion was allowed to blow over, they would work as they had never done before.
It isn't so much Miss O'Hara we mean.
Anyhow, we will let that lie in the future.
He had finished his breakfast when Ruth, in her neat Sunday dress, entered the room.
Now she seemed to awaken and pull herself together.
I adore beauty; I worship it more than anything else on earth.
I must rush home; there are no end of things to be attended to." "All right," said Mary.
"There's only one way out.
If she could do anything well, she could run in a race.
Those who know Ruth Craven, hold up their hands." Immediately there was a great show of uplifted hands.
I know that those three guineas a week that mother gets for having her are not worth all the mischief she will drag us into.
Kathleen then spoke slowly: "How did you hear that we do what you say we do?" "I do not intend to name my informant.
"Why, the little old lady seems as young and agile as the pretty niece," said one visitor to another.
She began to question Kathleen as to her acquirements, and found that she must leave her with the younger children for the time being.
and was waked not a fortnight ago.
No one need be dull who has the privilege of listening to two Irishwomen who have been parted for some time talking their hearts out to each other.
She hints at something awful going to happen at school to-day.
The owner of the house did not care to spend more than a very limited sum of money on coals and food.
You don't look well." "I am quite well," answered Ruth; "but I don't think I'll be able to come back with you to-day, Cassie." "Oh, what a pity, dear!
She has declared her intention of being naughty.
But as for me, the very lowest position I intend to take in life in the future is that of a teacher.
Think of your own future." "I think of them all," said Ruth; "but I also think of what father would have said if he were alive.
"This is a very good and a great school," said Miss Ravenscroft.
Truly the fun was all over; the dregs of the cup of pleasure were in their mouths, and there was a fear, great, certain, and very terrible, in their hearts.
I want to find her.
The house got along anyhow.
Now, I can't think what disgrace I have got into, unless some horrid girls have been prying and telling tales out of school.
Tennant left the room, and Alice went steadily on with her preparations.
There will be about forty of us altogether." "We are sure to be found out.
Ben forgot his anger; he was schoolboy enough to thoroughly enjoy the delicious meal which Kathleen had prepared.
Tennant could not help laughing as Kathleen described the sort of girl she would be if she adopted Alice's role.
Now the girls of my Cabinet are the following: Ruth Craven is my Prime Minister; Kate Rourke comes next in importance; then follow Susy Hopkins, Clara Sawyer, Hannah Johnson, Rosy Myers, and Mary Rand.
"Do you know my daughter?" she asked.
But now, are you going to help Miss Kathleen, or are you not?
Be persuaded, dear, and join Cassandra and Ruth, and have a happy time." Kathleen's face had turned crimson.
Weldon looked a little startled.
Well, but we'll talk of the bag when you have said whatever else you have got at the back of that wise little head of yours." "I have got news that may mean a great deal to you, but before I tell it I want you to give me a promise.
"And we'll never betray you or one another." CHAPTER XXII.
I force my treasures on nobody." "I wouldn't wear them if you were to give them.
Her expression was bewitching, and when she smiled a dimple came in her cheek.
"I am sorry if I am rude and not understood.
"If you are positive that it won't upset Brownie--" "You can lock Brownie up; I will take charge of the key." "And have him grunting like anything." "He won't be heard with forty of them." "It does sound very insurrectionary and wrong," said Mrs.
"It means that and more.
Now do be quick; we will find the others before us.
I'll join you after school, and well go straight away.
Which hat did you say--the one with the blue scarf round it?
This arrangement about meeting one another had been suggested by Kate Rourke, who knew a good deal about theatres, and who also knew how dangerous it would be for so many girls to be seen at the station together; but dressed quietly, and just dropping in by couples, nobody would remark them.
Her cap was tied with ribbons which had been washed so often that they were no longer white, but yellow.
"Don't you think Alice would look very nice in one of these?" said Kathleen, gazing with a very earnest face at Mrs.
Have you made the tea, Mrs.
I think you will have to put up with a rather serious conversation with her this morning.
You can therefore imagine the great and wonderful delight of being able to secure a scholarship of sixty pounds a year.
I meant to apprentice her to a good trade when she had gone through her course of work at the Great Shirley; but she will have to be a servant--a little maid-of-all-work--and I think that it would break my heart if she was expelled." "And what do you want me to do, Mrs.
I will cling to these two thoughts, and I don't believe if the worst comes that anything can really hurt me." When she got near the school she was met by Mrs.
Outside the yard at Charing Cross they all climbed on the top of an omnibus, and soon were wending their way in the direction of the Princess' Theater, which Kate most strongly advocated.
The founders of the Great Shirley School had ordained that it should always be governed by women--that women should conduct its concerns, should see to the best possible education of its pupils, and should manage these things to the best of their ability.
She forgot the dull school and the dreadfully dreary house where she now lived; she absolutely forgot that such a person as Miss Ravenscroft existed; she ceased almost to remember the Society of the Wild Irish Girls.
She dashed into heavy chords, played lightly a delicate movement, and then broke into an Irish air, "The Harp that once through Tara's Halls." From one Irish melody to another her light fingers wandered.
I know I oughtn't to tell you, but she is.
"Shall I shut it?" Alice made no answer.
It is therefore my painful duty to call upon Miss Ravenscroft as head-mistress to expel you, Ruth Craven, from this school.
It would be in the worst taste possible to wear anything but the simplest clothes." "All right," said Kathleen.
I wrote to her also.
"I wasn't brought here to curry favor with them.
Her mother kept a fairly flourishing stationer's shop, in one part of which was a post-office.
Once a week they were to meet in the quarry; once a week, whatever the weather, in the dead of night, they were to meet in this sequestered spot.
She was eccentric and untrained.
A thief came into the shop and took some of her money, and she is very short of money and very worried.
Church glanced over her shoulder and looked solemnly at Susy.
But he was like you--very neat in his person, and very particular, and always keen over his books.
It seemed absurd to see this tall, well-grown girl surrounded by tiny tots.
"Dear, dear!" she said, and she sat down in the easy-chair which Mrs.
"How tiresome of you to rouse me!" said Alice, opening her eyes and looking crossly at Kathleen.
She bowed very slightly and then dropped into a chair, and pointed to another for the girl to take.
It's hard enough to make ends meet without adding any more difficulties." Mrs.
It was all delightful, this stealing away in the dark, this pressing one against another as they walked down the little road.
Shall we go in now and set to work?" "You are an extraordinary girl," said Cassandra.
Then she said, speaking aloud: "Girls of the society, Wild Irish Girls, I am sorry to tell you that my aunt, Miss O'Flynn--Miss Katie O'Flynn--who I hoped would have joined our numbers to-night, and would have been a perfect rock of strength for us all, has been obliged to suddenly go back to Ireland, owing to an accident that has happened to her dearest friend." "Dear, dear, how sad!" said one or two.
I declare I scarcely know whether I'm on my head or my heels.--Alice, you'd best make yourself agreeable and join in the fun, for I can assure you it's theaters and concerts and teas and dinners and--oh!
They are taught liberally; they have the best rooms, the best laboratories; the best music, the best art, are supplied to them.
"It was disgusting of the others to funk it.
it's lonely I'm likely to be, isn't it, deary?
"But indeed you are mistaken.
Tennant," she said when she had finished, "what possessed you to live in England?
This child in appearance is one of Nature's ladies, but we must get her to see things in the right light, and if necessary she must be made an example of.
You, too, are a stranger." "Are you a stranger?" asked Kathleen.
Kathleen O'Hara would have died long ago but for her friends.
"It is only a very little past half-past eight, and I saw two poor women outside.
I cannot stay long, but I will have a morsel of your grand dinner before I leave." CHAPTER XIII.
The girls were directed to the right platform, and in process of time found themselves in the train.
Weldon could scarcely talk of anything else.
You can lend me the books when you don't want them." "What a splendid idea!" said Ruth, clapping her hands.
Some instinct told the wild, ignorant child to dress quietly.
She had made up her mind that she would wear her new blouse at dinner that day.
And what a perfect cut about the neck!
There were six governors, and they were all ladies.
I am ever so sorry, Miss O'Hara." "You mean that you won't come when I have called for you?" "I am with Miss Weldon at present." "Be sensible, dear," said Mrs.
There was an exalted feeling in her heart, caused by the narrative which her grandmother had told her of her father.
"You needn't reply unless you like, pet," she said.
"Some of these things are a little too fine for everyday use," she said.
She said she was expecting two young ladies." "Well, I am one of them.
"You are not cramped up in that favored spot; you are allowed to get up when you like and to go to bed when you like, to eat what you like, to read what books you like, to row on the lake, to shoot in the bogs, to gallop on your pony over the moors, and--and--oh, to live the life of the _free_." It was Ruth Craven who now interrupted the eager words of the queen of the new society.
"But there!" said the old man hastily.
Now then, let me help you.
What chance has one hundred against three?" "What is the good of bringing all that up, Susy?" said Mary Rand.
Why, I know I shall do very well in the future.
"And what a neat little bodice my Susy is wearing!" said Mrs.
"She has a great deal that is good in her; she is handsome and rich, very affectionate, and full of spirit." "But what has a girl who is handsome and rich to do in a school like the Great Shirley?" asked Mrs.
The girls crowded round to admire, and "Oh, my!" "Oh, dear!" "Did you ever?" and "Well, I never!" sounded on all sides.
It had been endowed some hundred years ago by a rich and eccentric individual who bore the name of Charles Shirley, but was now managed by a Board of Governors.
It was a dark-blue serge, very neatly made.
It isn't fit for you, Susy; it really isn't.
She was disappointed that she had not seen Ruth; but Ruth had promised to be with her quite early in the afternoon.
There was no need to hurry.
In the end she and he made a compact.
"I have hitherto failed to perceive the qualities in you that are worthy of love.
She was a tall, strong-minded woman, with iron-gray hair, false teeth, a prominent nose, and small steel-gray eyes.
Susy Hopkins was quite an ordinary-looking little girl.
The governors sat in a little circle, Miss Mackenzie in the middle.
You can go home to your mother and tell her I am very much annoyed indeed." "But, Aunt Church," said Tom, "if you were to see poor mother you wouldn't blame her.
Alice was seldom downstairs until past eight.
She had a dull, stunned kind of feeling round her heart.
So was the head-mistress, Miss Ravenscroft; and also, seated on the same little raised platform, were the six ladies who formed the governors.
Hopkins, "that that pretty young lady happened to call!
I wish you could see it from Carrigrohane.
They don't talk as you talk in the old country and they don't look as you look.
This was decidedly more difficult than her downward one; but she was light of foot and agile.
"Well; she doesn't like her either, though she doesn't use that kind of language," continued Susy.
"I was so distracted; I have to be a good way from here at nine o'clock, I couldn't think whatever kept you.
Oh, we will take it out of them, sha'n't we?" Kathleen made no reply.
"We must ask the way, of course," was Ruth's answer.
"Why, you have crowned me queen yourselves.
There was nothing in the cottage for Mrs.
I have no real dislike to learning, and if another girl spoke to me as you have done I might be very glad." "What do you mean?" said poor Alice.
After supper she went with David into the old loft over the tumble-down stables.
On every possible occasion they were avoided, and there must be something very special about any one of them if she was taken up by the aristocrats--as they termed themselves--of the school.
"I have a great fancy for birds, and I am fond of new-laid eggs." "Fowls will do just as well," said Kathleen, rising now carelessly from her seat.
She said you are certain to get into most serious, terrible trouble, for the governors will on no account depart from their firm resolve to expel you from the school.
Why, I see sunshine quite plainly from where I am lying.
"Just this once," she said; "but you must begin to practice properly.
MEADE SERIES BAD LITTLE HANNAH A BUNCH OF CHERRIES CHILDREN'S PILGRIMAGE DADDY'S GIRL DEB AND THE DUCHESS FRANCIS KANE'S FORTUNE A GAY CHARMER A GIRL OF THE PEOPLE A GIRL IN TEN THOUSAND THE GIRLS OF ST.
Ruth Craven was a member of the objectionable society; she very wisely left it, knowing that she would better herself by doing so.--Now then, Ruth, we expect you to tell us all about the society--where it meets, and as much as you know about its rules.
Alice downstairs felt like a caged lion.
"Oh, Kathleen," she said, "I am glad you have come.
The provisions were stowed safely away in the bottom and covered over with a piece of old matting, and then Tom and Susy started off.
Compared to the house where the Tennants lived, this tiny place looked like a paradise to Kathleen.
"Have you any luggage in the van, miss?" was the immediate inquiry.
I should love to be Prime Minister to Kathleen O'Hara.
Naylor, "your object in coming to school is doubtless the best object of all." Ruth raised inquiring eyes.
Don't you think it is very nice of me to think of my friends?
I have that to think over, and that is against the scheme, Susy Hopkins." "And what do a few hours' misery signify," said Susy, "when you have all the rest of your life to live in clover?" "That's true--that's true," said the old lady.
She's a regular out-and-out beauty." "I know her," cried Ruth Craven.
I thought I was back in the shop again.
"This is a nice state of things, I must say.
Church opened her eyes very wide; her mouth formed itself into a round O.
With that leader the governors will deal.
"Sausages," she said, bringing out the word with great gusto, "and shrimps, and water-cress, and sardines, besides bread-and-butter galore, and nice hot tea.
"Please," said Kathleen, "will you say that Miss O'Hara has called and would be glad to see Miss Ruth Craven for a few minutes?" The girl withdrew.
"You don't know what it would mean to me," answered Miss Spicer.
I declare I won't go if it is as bad as that." "It would be like you not to come," said Alice.
She stood very upright, and looked full at Cassandra.
I have been trying to induce her to stay here herself, but she won't; and as Ruth is anxious to return home, her escort has come very opportunely.
The moment Ruth entered now her grandmother put her head out of the kitchen door.
Tennant, "for I never met a more charming girl." "I know you think so; but, you see, mere charm of manner doesn't go down in a great school like ours.
"Of course, there never was a boy like Tom.
You will have to give me your word, and that before you leave this room.
"I really don't know whether I love you or hate you most for being such a little goose.
I told him you were here, and he would like to see you." "He has been bothered like anything about those accounts," said Mrs.
See, this is our queen," and she presented Kathleen to the assembled girls.
And there was a thick albert chain made of solid silver for Ben, and a keyless silver watch for David; and what could boys possibly want more?
Temptation tugged at her heart.
"Doesn't it break your heart to see him?" "Oh no," said Ruth.
And may I take you and Miss O'Flynn into the house to see Aunt Church?" Kathleen nodded in reply.
"Now tell me all about it.
"Spend your money on buying food for us.
Maria is making fresh tea now in the kitchen.
There never was a bath-chair that creaked like that.
"Come, girls," said their queen--"come; there is room on the platform." She sprang up the couple of steps without another word, and the girls followed her.
There, indeed, all things had changed.
You see, she is in the position of the person who knows everything.
On her way back Florence Archer suddenly joined her.
Perhaps I am wrong, perhaps I am right, but I feel happy.
She said I was to see you to-day, and I was to take her back the answer.
Ruth's remark was unexpected, but the girls pooh-poohed Hannah's.
"Aren't you going to give me a little bit of dinner, Mrs.
There'd be no horrid shop then, and no horrid women coming in for ha'p'orths and penn'orths of paper." But as she ran through the autumn night-air she felt that, after all, there was something good in life.
She had not Kathleen's passionate, quick, impulsive nature--furious with rage one minute, sweet and gentle and affectionate the next.
"I will join the others, although I don't approve," said Hannah Johnson, with a somewhat unwilling nod.
You are my friend, you know." "Oh no," said Ruth.
You have come to school to be disciplined.
Craven came in, looked at her proudly, wagged her head, and returned to the kitchen.
"Have you really decided, Ruth?" she said.
"I scarcely know Miss Ravenscroft.
I wouldn't live in your wild castle for all you could give me." "Nobody asked you, my dear," said Kathleen, with a saucy nod of her head.
You tell her you got it at a cheap sale.
"I will join you, Cassandra," she said.--"Kathleen, I told you this morning what my decision was." "And I hate you!" said Kathleen.
"If I appear just as poor as they are, I shall never be able to keep my exalted position as queen.
I know a way in which you can secure my good opinion." "Really!" said Kathleen, who was too angry now to be properly polite.
She had two hours' hard work before her, and it was already nearly six o'clock.
Cassandra was looked up to by all her fellow-students, and this not because she was rich, nor because she was beautiful, but simply because she was good and honorable and trustworthy; she possessed a large amount of sympathy for nearly every one, her tact was unfailing, and she was never self-assertive.
I'll just run round to the shop and buy them.
"I mean this, my dear, that my husband and I will see you seven back to your home, wherever it is." Kathleen burst out laughing; then she looked very grave, and her eyes filled with tears as she said: "But wouldn't mother approve of it?" "If your mother is the least like me she would not approve of it; she would be horrified." "I don't think the lady can see us home," here remarked Clara Sawyer, "for we live at Merrifield, a good long way from London." Again the lady and her husband had a talk together, and then she suggested that they should take the girls back with them to Charing Cross and put them into their train.
But I can't now betray those who were my friends.
"That does sound romantic." Her momentary dislike to Kathleen had vanished.
Susy, in her mother's opinion, was not quite so nice and comforting as she once had been.
You are connected with other girls now; your influence must be publicly withdrawn.
We'll meet to-morrow morning." The girls parted, and Florence went on her way home.
She would get her forty pounds a year when the time came, and go to Holloway College or some other college.
those things ought to be counted in the education of a woman.
"But now, with all these silly gewgaws, you will be worse titan ever.
Would you greatly mind coming back with me after school, just to see him for a minute?
Is it very difficult to get into one of these houses, missy?" "I don't know.
"I have been to a theater twice before.
I am not fond of those watery stews.
Do you know, I offered to walk home with her yesterday, and she said, 'No, I thank you; I prefer to walk home alone,'" As Hannah made this speech she adopted the mincing tones which she supposed Ruth Craven had used.
She might even have cried." Kathleen raised her brows as she said the last word; her face expressed consternation and a trifle of amazement.
We have, as it were, to uphold the spirit of the school.
Kathleen is the dearest, truest, greatest lady I ever came across.
Hopkins, with a groan; "but I haven't paid for one of them.
It would be much better for you to see Miss Ravenscroft in the morning and explain matters to her." "Nonsense!" said Kathleen, now speaking with decided temper.
SUSY HOPKINS PERSUADES AUNT CHURCH.
"You are very low down in the school.
She put on her hat and jacket, snatched up a pair of gloves, and the next moment was out of the house.
"Here's something to delight the heart.
I don't want to appeal to mother or to be rude to the poor wild thing the first day.
What about Miss Kathleen O'Hara?" "Aunt Church, you can help Miss Kathleen, and she is worthy of being helped.
I have seen her give hundreds of pounds for one little glittering gem.
You will have to wear it." "But what will Alice say?" "Never mind.
Well, mother, to avoid all these consequences I must go as fast as I can to see Aunt Church." CHAPTER XVIII.
The two other girls burst out laughing.
"I am not going to have Aunt Katie so close to me without having my bit of fun.
"I have promised granny that I would help her with some darning this afternoon." "Your granny must do without you, for you have got to come back with me." "Oh, indeed, I can't!" "But you must, my little girl.
She looks, oh, so thin and so tired!
Her face, which had been quite florid, turned pale.
"To see Miss Ravenscroft," replied Alice.
You are so clever, and so different from the others, that you are certain to succeed.
THE HOME-SICK AND THE REBELLIOUS.
The Irish girl had a healthy appetite, and was indifferent to what she ate.
She could be the primest favorite with every one if she only chose.
I was a bit of a scholar when I was young, although I made my money in grocery.
It was the wish of the founders that there should always be one hundred foundationers on the school lists, and these girls are admitted free; they pay nothing in hard cash for what they receive.
"We are naturally most anxious that such a painful scene should not take place," said Miss Ravenscroft.
Susy herself would be expelled from the school, and she in her fall would bring down her mother and brother.
She had dropped asleep immediately.
I wouldn't like us all to be as fagged as she is--poor, dear, gentle soul!
Are you prepared to tell me what you know of the Wild Irish Girls?" Ruth was silent.
But the accounts ain't balanced, Ruthie; we are on the wrong side of the ledger, my love--on the wrong side of the ledger." Ruth said nothing more.
The doors of the school were now thrown open, and the girls disappeared by their special entrances.
She went there at once, wondering if the head-mistress wanted to give her particular instructions with regard to the great scholarship examination which would take place at the end of the term.
"Tired one, where are you?" "Kathleen, you ought not to call me by that name.
Take it up to my bedroom and put it on the floor.
I didn't find her in her room, and I wondered what had become of her." "Where is she?" said Mrs.
"And they will press you hard." Still Ruth made no answer.
She wants you to do something for her." "Me?" said Mrs.
Run into the shop the moment you have finished your tea, like a good child.
And I don't suppose, even if your aunt is coming at a most inopportune time, that she is going to upset everything." "That remains to be proved," said Kathleen.
hurrah!" The whole eight immediately broke into a ringing cheer.
Maybe there's something in it for you, or maybe there isn't--Mrs.
Don't you know what an affinity means?
"It is from Aunt Katie O'Flynn, and she is crossing the Channel, the darling colleenoge.
"I got on abominably," said Kathleen.
Kathleen sprang up the minute she saw Ruth, rushed across the room, and flung one arm with considerable violence round her neck.
I got it honestly, and I am not obliged to tell; and what's more, I won't tell." Mrs.
"Why didn't you get it back?" she said.
It is extra good this morning, and there's a drop of cream in that jug which will give it a flavor." Ruth sat down to the table and drew her bowl of porridge towards her.
So Kathleen ate her breakfast with appetite, remarked on the brightness of the day to Mrs.
You will not then be able to get the Ayldice Scholarship.
You don't mean to say you demean yourself by associating with tradesmen's daughters?" "I do so, aunty; and I find them very much nicer than the stuck-up girls who think no end of themselves." "Well, well," said Miss O'Flynn, "whatever you are, you are a lady born and bred, and nothing can lower that sort--nothing nor nobody.
We were forced to put her into much too low a class for her years and general appearance." "Well," said Miss Smyth, "that, after all, isn't a crime.
We will go to town by the quarter-to-six train to-morrow evening.
Her grandmother was waiting for her in the porch.
We don't know anything about London," interrupted Kathleen.
"No, no; one of those two-wheeled things," said the little girl.
Well, Susan, you may take my little story for what it is worth, and much good may it do you." "I think you are very rude indeed, Aunt Church," said Susy.
"She is most lovely." "She's better," said Susy; "she's bewitching.
We are not going to have a large party--just one or two of the mistresses and little Ruth Craven, who, although she is a foundationer, seems to be a very nice sort of child.
"What are young legs for if not to wait on old legs?
"I wish mother hadn't asked her to come," said Alice to herself.
And I'd bring you back again in the evening.
Tennant and said emphatically: "I have fallen in love." "My dear Kathleen!" "I have--with a girl, so it doesn't matter.
Upstairs was a bedroom for Ruth and a bedroom for her grandparents.
Why so?" "I did not mean to be rude," said Kathleen.
These rules are made not only to enable the girls to get the best possible education out of the school, but also that the greater education of mind and heart, which alone can build up a fine and useful character, may not be neglected.
They all felt very grave, and Kathleen, who had a great power of reading what went on in the hearts of those in whom she was interested, felt somehow that their enthusiasm had abated.
I shall have a broken heart if this sort of thing goes on." She entered the house.
"And you trace this disgraceful state of things to the advent of the Irish girl?" said Miss Mackenzie.
I'll prove to her that I defy her.
Oh, you'll enjoy it fine!
She was rapidly approaching the proud position of head girl in the school.
I will not join nor advocate any plan that annoys or worries them." The girls looked dubious, and one or two began to speak in discontented voices.
She was so occupied when her mother came in.
Tennant began to hunt about for one.
"A good little girl, miss, and deserving of anything that those who are better off can do for her.
"Look for yourself," she said.
We'll be in London before long." "You wouldn't disobey Miss Ravenscroft if you were to be our real queen." "Then I'll not be your queen, darling, for I shall disobey Miss Ravenscroft when it comes to a case of obliging her or dear, darling, precious aunty." Ruth said no more.
I wonder one of your fine friends doesn't pay for you, and so save your position out and out." "I wouldn't allow her to," replied Ruth, her eyes flashing fire.
She combed back her luxurious hair and tied it with a ribbon to match the dress.
"I feel every word you say, Kate.
I can't decide just now.
The sky was cloudless; the few leaves that still remained on the trees looked brilliant in their autumn coloring.
I hope I have some proper pride." "Pride of the _most_ proper sort," said Kathleen, dancing before her.
"Ruth Craven." "Your age?" "I am fourteen." "Where do you live?" "In No.
I must tell you all about our scheme.
I have got into the most awful scrape; nobody knows what will happen.
"I cannot answer because I know nothing," she said.
It was a curious party for such a room and for such surroundings.
The disordered state of the room gave evidence of this; and then on a nearer view Mrs.
I am sorry that Miss Ravenscroft expects her to go to see her to-day, as she is so devoted to her aunt and would enjoy seeing her." Mrs.
Cassandra somehow did not dare to say any more.
"Half of them will be in gray and half of them in brown, and a few old dowdies will perhaps be in black.
The mere fact of her defying my authority and refusing to come to see me when she is summoned, shows that she is insubordinate as far as this school is concerned." Alice sat very still.
When the contents of the trunk had been finally explored, Kathleen began to sort her finery.
"Mother said we were to be home early to-day." "All right," said Kathleen; "but I can't find Miss Craven anywhere.
I haven't the slightest influence over her, but you have.
"Ah!" he said, raising his face when he saw Kathleen.
She stood quiet for a minute or two, and then she went slowly upstairs.
She must be out of the house in a little over a quarter of an hour if she was to meet Ruth Craven at the White Cross Corner.
They were to go in quite quietly by twos and twos; each couple of girls was to go to the booking-office and take their tickets, and walk away just as though nothing special had happened.
Meanwhile Miss Ravenscroft sat with her eyes fixed on the different girls in their different forms.
She was so absorbed in her feelings, and in wondering what would happen during the next twenty-four hours, that she was not attentive at her lessons, and did not notice how the teachers watched her and made remarks.
What is the matter?" "I must get home.
You must make your own plans and let me know." "I am sure I can manage the old lady, and I will tell you why.
"I always like going to Aunt Church's; she is very kind to me.
Hopkins, "I have notions in my head.
The message is to the effect that if those silly girls who have allied themselves to that most ridiculous society, the Wild Irish Girls, will give the name of their leader, they shall be forgiven.
On her way to school she met Ruth.
She felt very much elated and really pleased.
THE BOX FROM DUBLIN AND ITS TREASURES.
Rules must be made, and these rules at any cost must be obeyed.
He could not see the parlor beyond, nor the peep-hole where Susy was supposed to be able to watch the shop; he only noticed that no one was within.
And this dear little girl, one of my chosen friends, Ruth Craven, has come with me." "Ah, now, how sweet of her!" said Miss O'Flynn, turning to Ruth.--"Kiss me, my darling.
And she has taken a dislike, as far as I can see, to Alice Tennant." "And I'm sure I'm not surprised," said Rosy Myers.
She played one or two bars perforce and very badly; then she dashed the sheet of music in an impetuous way to the floor.
For the present we will forget last night." "Thank you, madam.
She could not get the radiant face out of her head, nor the words, a little sad in their meaning, out of her ears.
"I am a coward, and I ought to be ashamed of myself," she thought.
Tennant and Miss O'Flynn were out.
She'd be almost pretty if she was nicely dressed.
shopping, and every conceivable thing that can delight the heart of man or woman, boy or girl, that will be our portion while Aunt Katie--the duck, the darling, the treasure!--is in London.
The people are as ugly as the country, and they're so stiff and stuck-up.
You'd like to trim your hat to match that handsome blouse, wouldn't you?" Susy's eyes could not help dancing.
Meanwhile Ruth had also gone on her way.
But when the meat had been followed by the apple-pudding, and the apple-pudding by some coffee which was served in real china cups, and Mrs.
I know it is a good bit farther, but she is not in it with me as far as running is concerned," was Kathleen's thought.
It isn't worth while, Alice.
One was called Kate Rourke; she was a girl of fifteen years of age, showily dressed, with flashing eyes, long earrings in her ears, false jewellery round her neck, and a smart, rather shabby hat, trimmed with a lot of flowers, placed at the back of her head.
She could tell us all about them if she liked, and help us to bring the insurrection to an end." "Then that is capital," said Miss Mackenzie in a tone of enjoyment.
"Does the queen mind our looking at her face in turns?" said Kate Rourke.
I will just say that I know but that I can't tell.
Why, do you think I'd let this precious darling child back again in the middle of the night?
"If I had that detestable Miss Ravenscroft here, wouldn't I give her a piece of my mind?
We are obliged to supply them with as much coal as they want, and candles, and a new pair of blankets on the first of every November, and a bale of unbleached calico on the first of May.
It is her room as much as yours.
Did you ever hear of a girl who lived in a castle--a great beautiful castle--on the top of a high hill?
"Why, I never!" she cried.
I had a telegram from her desiring me to go to her immediately in town.
I like you very much, and I want to be kind to everybody; but to compare you or Mary Rand or Rosy Myers, or any of the others, with Ruth Craven--" "But she is no better." "She is a great deal better.
"Can't we defer talking of the charms of Kathleen's character until after I have done my lessons?" "Of course, dear," said her mother.
"As far as I know, she is a good girl; and I judge by your method of answering my question that she is a popular girl.
She pushed it wider and got in.
"Well, if you won't lay the cloth, and won't help your own poor old aunt, you may as well tell me what you came for." "Not yet.
It was quite true that Mrs.
"It is my painful duty," she said, "to have to say something which distresses me far more than I can give you any idea of.
Craven sank into her chair.
"Sit down on that chair.
Ross, the two Misses Scott, and Miss Jane Smyth.
The person I am most anxious about at present is Ruth: I love Ruth so very much.
"I tell you what it is, Kathleen, I feel rather frightened.
"She can never be cross, and I like her very much.--Where is the lady?" she added, turning to the waiter.
"But can't you wait just for once?" asked David.
Finally, at the very bottom of the trunk was a little parcel which she refrained from opening while Mrs.
She wants to join our alms-women." "What?" "You know what a snug time our dear old alms-women have.
"Now all is well, and I shall sleep like a top until the morning." This, however, was no easy feat.
She had added a pound of sausage and a little piece of pork to their usual Sunday fare.
Alice had learnt to put up with these things; she turned her back on them, so to speak.
I'd made up my mind not to think of it, and now you have forced me to say it.
Please don't ask me." "You look very sad." "I feel miserable." "I wonder--" said Cassandra thoughtfully.
Oh, Ruth, mayn't we stand up in the hansom?
We gave you three days to consider, telling you that if at the end of that time you still kept to your resolution there was only one thing for us to do, and that was to make an example of you in the presence of the entire school--in short, to take from you your right of membership, and to expel you from the school, taking from you all privileges, all chances of acquiring learning and the different valuable scholarships which this school was opening to you.
I have something to say." "Indeed!" Kathleen longed to be very rude, but she thought of her delightful plan so close at hand, and refrained.
Now there is nothing more to be said." Ruth disentangled herself from Kathleen's embrace, and putting wings to her feet, ran in the direction of the school.
I trust when I am forty I shall not want a crutch.
"They don't wear old bombazine like this, do they?" "Your dress suits you very well, indeed," said Kathleen; "but my old ladies wear velveteen dresses.
Laughter sometimes checks the eager flow of words.
When I came to your wonderful school and looked all around me, I said to myself, 'If I'm not to have companions, why, I'll die; the heart of Kathleen O'Hara will be broken.
Aloud she said: "I am sorry, darling, but I am specially busy, and I really must have my share of the room to myself." "Do open the door, Kathleen," now almost pleaded poor Alice.
"Why have you shut the shop?" said Mrs.
I do feel obliged for your kind opinion of me.
Don't you admire it?" Mrs.
She did not suppose the matter was of special import.
"I really can't put up with this sort of thing any longer.
"We all think, dear," continued Mrs.
Where is the Métropole?" "In Northumberland Avenue.
Sometimes I think that my burden is greater than I can bear.
It was very evident to an onlooker that the teachers were particularly alert that morning, and that their gaze was principally fixed upon the foundationers.
Imagery is so freely employed; telling sentences, sharp satire, wit--brilliant, overflowing, spontaneous--all come to the fore.
He was a very handsome boy.
He stood in front of his sister now and said: "What's the matter?
We who are old must know more than you can possibly know, Ruth, with regard to the benefits of a great establishment like this.
Church became one of the Irish alms-women, and grumbled a good deal at the change in her position.
The school has got into trouble, and the governors and Miss Ravenscroft mean to sift the matter to the very bottom.
"But we thought we'd have a bit of supper," said Kate Rourke.
and there's Susy in the distance.
She put her hand on the moth-eaten cushion of the old bath-chair, bent forward, and looked into Mrs.
"Stuck-up thing!" said Clara Sawyer.
Church's sitting-room from her bedroom.
These are for the secret society." "The what, Kathleen?" "Oh, you musn't tell--it is the most profound secret--but I have joined one.
It's extremely displeasing both to David and me." Kathleen laughed.
He was at his best just now.
Church began to recollect herself.
She poured some out now, very unwillingly, for Kathleen, who drew the cup towards her, stirred it absently, and began to read her letters.
Now the window of Mrs.
And where's the little Irish beauty?" "For goodness' sake don't speak about her," said Alice.
What shall I do that will most aggravate them?
Tennant's face, and her heart relented.
She had made up her mind.
Craven brought him his meals into the little parlor.
"But how was it you came, Janey?
The girls whom she took into her own house and helped with her own counsel were thought the luckiest in England.
Now, there are certain principles which every girl who comes into this school is bound to adhere to.
We'll say Wednesday week to receive the money, and I will come over in my bath-chair, drawn by Tom, to take it; and I will give Tom a whole shilling for himself the day I get it back.
Stand here and pour your words into my ear.
She rose to her feet and dropped a little bobbing curtsy, then waited to be asked to sit down again.
She was just drawing a pair of gloves on her hands when Alice was heard turning the handle of the door.
She had also brought sixpennyworth of apples with her.
They were usually a good deal tormented by the foundationers, who took their revenge by small spiteful ways--by taking the ink when they did not want it, by removing good pens and putting bad ones in their places, by spilling ink on the blotting paper.
There was a great tree, which cast a huge shadow, just before the winding passage was reached.
If I win it I shall be properly educated.
I am going to be very late, so you can go on by yourself, Alice." Alice very nearly stamped her foot.
I know all about you, and I want to know you better.
The effect was somewhat the same as though a gorgeous butterfly had flown into the room.
I am sorry he is so bothered about the accounts, but perhaps that phase will pass." "He is so pleased about you and the scholarship." "Yes," said Ruth.
It's gloating and fussing over my clothes I will be--portioning out those I mean to give to others, and trying on the ones that will suit me.
Kathleen had shut the window behind her before she trusted herself to the ivy; she had also unlocked the door.
Alice came up as far as the tree; she paused a minute and looked around her.
"But you'd have to change a good bit.
I wonder what for." Ruth colored and looked down.
I am certain to get a bad mark for unpunctuality, so I may as well get it looking my best as my worst.
Shall I make it?" "The tea is in that little brown caddy," said Mrs.
"And is this the little lady--the dear little lady--- from over the seas, from the heart of Ireland itself?
it is a mouthful of a word for me to get round my lips.
I'd like to know, and as soon as possible." "We have written about it, Mrs.
But, Susy, I want you to do something.
I wonder where the old quarry is," she thought.
She was easily influenced by others, and it was her habit to follow the one who gave her the last advice.
"Do you greatly object to shutting the window?" she said to Kathleen.
I will watch her and find out if I agree with you.
Just for a second Kathleen's bright eyes fell upon the sweetmeat with disgust; then she took it up gingerly and popped it into her mouth.
Here is worsted, and here is a needle.
But Ruth had avoided Cassandra's eyes.
"But the time is passing, and we must proceed to what little business is left for to-night." Each member of the Cabinet took possession of her own blouse, wrapped it up tenderly, and tucked it under her arm.
When Kathleen had gone upstairs, Mrs.
Now then, I had best be as mum as I can unless I want to distract the poor thing entirely." Alice entered the room.
But he was a commissioned officer in the Punjab Infantry.
When Kathleen appeared all was immediately changed.
Come with me, won't you?" Ruth hesitated.
The work of the school began, and all the girls were busy.
It is past ten o'clock.
I have brought you a little bag that I made my own self, and you shall have it if you promise me something.
It is something very particular indeed.
That was a very bonny young lady who came into your mother's shop--miles and miles above you, Susan.
Fine feathers make fine birds.--Come over and speak to me, my dear, and help me out of this chair.
She provided the woman with a stamp, and then, shut the drawer of the till.
Tennant," shouted Kathleen, "I have the top of the morning as far as news is concerned.
They all crowded up to her at once.
It came over me all of a sudden how lazy I was, and how wrong to neglect the shop and not give your grandmother a bit of help with the customers; and so strong was the notion over me that I unlocked the old bureau and took out the account-books.
"I have managed everything," she said in a whisper.
"Don't do it again, that's all." Kathleen nodded her head, and again buried herself in her book.
When they were all seated round the table Miss Mackenzie, who was chairwoman, took out the agenda and read its contents aloud.
"I do hate her very much indeed.
Tennant, coming up to her at that moment.
You are too white altogether, Ruth.
I shall be able to support granny and grandfather.
She rushed on, reached the station, flew up the steps, and found herself on the platform just as the train was coming in.
I never did see a more elegant figure.
You must remember that I saved up for it sixpence by sixpence, and it took me all my time and my best endeavors to get it." "I know it, granny; and when I wear it I feel that you were very kind to give it me.
She and Kathleen laughed over the shrimps, exclaimed at the fun of eating the water-cress, enjoyed the sausages, and each drank four cups of tea.
I'll think of it all day, and it will make me so happy." Kathleen dashed away to her own room, put on her outdoor things, and a moment or two later was running as fast as she could in the direction of the White Cross Corner.
"Well, I fail to understand her.
I want to get into my room; I want to tidy myself.
Now don't keep me; I must run into school.
As long as I am in England I must consort, I see, with all kinds of people; and if you will make yourself useful to me, I will be good to you." Susy turned and led the way in the direction of Cassandra Weldon's home.
I did not know what might have happened to you, knowing how ignorant you are of London and its ways." "But I have got a head on my shoulders," laughed Kathleen.
"What are you doing there?" "The outside of this door doesn't belong to you," called David, "and if I like to whistle through the keyhole you can't prevent me;" and he began "Garry Owen" again.
Tom Hopkins is part and parcel of this 'ere feast, and the sooner you make up your mind to endure me the better." Susy felt slightly alarmed, but she knew from experience that Tom's bark was worse than his bite; and she trusted to Aunt Church desiring him in a peremptory manner to go when the time approached, and to Tom's being forced to obey her.
"Don't ask me," she said; "perhaps the less I say the better.
"It is not to be thought of.
The fact was that she was very modest and a perfect lady, and it was impossible to feel anything but good-will towards her.
I have a rosy apple which shall find its way into your pocket if you take me home in double-quick time." Tom pulled with a will; the little bath-chair creaked and groaned, and Mrs.
"I wish--" she said suddenly.
"I suppose you couldn't shut up the shop and come with me, could you, mother?" "Shut up the shop!" said Mrs.
We of the foundation will lead our own life, and be as happy as the day is long.
Anyhow, I don't feel quite so bad as before I went to see Miss Ravenscroft." Meanwhile Susy Hopkins was having a busy time.
She is a wonderful girl--so graceful, and with such a power of eloquence.
"Now for a jolly time," said Kathleen.
"Oh, mother, don't!" said the little girl.
She came home in time for tea; but, to her amazement she found another telegram waiting for her.
But Kathleen herself was determined not to give way to any real feelings of misery on account of Ruth's desertion.
And isn't this water-cress nice?
A large bottle of crystalline oil accompanied the lamps.
"Grandfather," she said, "are you all right now--quite wide awake, I mean?
"And Kathleen says she won't go?" "Of course I won't go, dear Mrs.
It isn't a question of choice; it is a question of necessity.
She rushed upstairs, but Kathleen was even quicker.
And I have a little water-color sketch of my mother, and she looks fair and sweet and interesting.
Her talents were of the most brilliant order; her very faults seemed in one way to add to her charms.
What punishment they receive will only be connected with their work in the school, and may possibly exclude them from competing for certain scholarships during this present term, but for the rest nothing further will be said.
On the contrary, she took her hand and pressed it.
I love to see our old ladies gaily dressed.
"She thought it right, but something dreadful is going to happen.
She ran across the common, and reached the doors of the great school exactly one hour after she ought to have arrived.
"I don't think that is a very fair rule," she said.
Put the books on this little table, and leave me for an hour or two.
I think Kathleen will be all right when we really get to know her; but she is very undisciplined.
They stared open-eyed at Alice when they saw her still sitting in her rough school things, a very cross expression on her face.
I want them to be Tom's some day.
Nevertheless a commonplace little girl like Susy Hopkins had not one thing in common with Kathleen.
Those who are present to-night will be in my Cabinet.
I wouldn't like to see that sort of sorry look in his dear dark-blue eyes.
It is true they were to buy their own in the first instance, but Kathleen was to return them the money in the train.
He was a very knowing boy, and spoke up so well, and was so evidently sorry himself, and so positive that as soon as ever the police were told they would simply lay their hands on the thief and the thief would disgorge his spoils, that Aunt Church was fain to believe him.
She brought it to me, and I now hand it to you ladies for inspection." The little silver heart-shaped badge was passed from one lady to another.
Why did you do it, Susy?
I have the straight window, and you have the bay.
I couldn't live if I wasn't really naughty sometimes.
Why, Tom, boy, I spend that money on my food, rent, and the little expenses I have to go to.
She is frightfully, tiresomely good, and she's just _too_ pretty; and she's not a bit vain, and she's not a bit puffed up.
Your grandparents were both in trade; there's no way out of it." "But a gentleman and lady for all that," said the girl.
"Is it that she calls it?
What is the glass for?" "It is the window that lights my bedroom, miss," said Mrs.
"She's taking no end of a fancy to me.
Naylor, will you now say what you think to Ruth Craven?" "I think, dear child," said Mrs.
"I am sure from your face that you will not tell me a lie." "No," said Kathleen, "I won't tell you a lie." "I must, however, ask you one or two direct questions.
I told granny I did not exactly know what time I should be back, but she certainly wouldn't expect me to be out late." "Never mind; you are doing me a kindness.
"Free at last," she thought.
Hopkins--Susy Hopkins's mother?" "Indeed, my dear, I'm truly thankful to say I am not.
"Ruthie," she said, "the butcher has disappointed us to-day.
Kathleen O'Hara ran up to an untidy room.
The foundationers were not altogether without friends amongst the other girls of the school.
You will be fond of me, won't you?" "I like you now," said Ruth.
"I can easily do it; it is but to swing on to that thick cord of ivy and I shall reach the ground without the slightest trouble.
"By then I shall have drawn up the rules.
On the present occasion she wore a crimson velvet toque.
Well, I can't help myself, only I won't hate the girls who are good to me.
"How are you?" replied Kathleen, just raising her brows, and then turning to say something to Susy Hopkins.
The old lady said that she felt very smart and refreshed, and altogether in a state to do honor to that dear little almshouse.
She could not, of course, stock it as fully as she would have liked; she could never extend her connection beyond mere stationery, sealing-wax, pens, and a very few books, and Christmas cards in the winter.
I am a plain-spoken body and I'd like to know it; for if so it can be done, I ought to give notice to the landlord of this little house, where I have lived in peace and comfort for over twelve years.
You see, dear--" his voice faltered and his eyes grew anxious--"I must mind the shop.
What does it mean, in your opinion?" "Oh, Kathleen, can't you understand?
Her beautiful, fair, delicately chiselled face had turned pale.
It is you and me will be the finest of friends, sha'n't we?" Before Ruth could reply the girls had entered the great hall, which presently became quite full.
Kathleen saw them from the window; she tapped on the window with her knuckles, nodded to them, kissed her hand, and looked radiant with delight.
"Stand just in front of me," she said, "and let me look at you.
"I went there for the first time to-day." "So your grandparents are going to educate you, miss, as if you were a lady." "I am a lady, Mrs.
She found a seat on the front bench, dropped into it, and at the same moment encountered the almost malicious glance of Alice Tennant.
Church, I will write to father and let you know if there is a vacancy; and you could come back with me in the summer, couldn't you?" "Oh, miss, it would be heaven!" "Can't we go out and have a walk now, Susy?" said Kathleen, who found the small parlor a little too close for her taste.
Church had a certain power about her, and she impelled Susy to come forward.
No tears shook her little frame, but there was a storm within.
In an instant she had climbed up and was seated securely in one of its lower branches.
There are some people born that way; I think, after a fashion, I am one of them.
"I can't do it," she said, looking Miss Spicer full in the face.
I should love to make her look just as beautiful as she can look.
"The most extraordinary and the most lively nation on the face of the earth." The two vivacious Irishwomen entered their bedroom.
I am going to be chummy with you.
I am busy preparing for my scholarship examination or I would stay and argue with you.
She was examining Ruth with great care, but not at all from the unkind point of view; hers was a sympathetic aspect.
"If the situation wasn't quite so tremendous I could enjoy this," she thought.
She sent for the little maid in the kitchen to put up the shutters, and in a minute or two the shop was in darkness and Susy was racing through the remainder of her lessons.
She's got into that school, and she's trying for a scholarship.
You are not to repeat it to anybody.
She wants to bring, not the long arm of the law, but father's arm right across the sea to stop me.
"That's about it," said Kathleen.
Susy had secured a candle in a tin candlestick, with which she had lighted herself to her bedroom, but when she got there she had no intention of putting up with such feeble illumination.
You haven't touched any," said Mrs.
"Now, then, my angels, you come with me," she said, and she caught David by the one hand and Ben by the other, and led her willing slaves into the hall.
Altogether it was a very bizarre and fascinating little figure that appeared that evening at the Weldons' hall door.
"The rule must be held," she said.
Think what a chance is offered you.
Tennant made her appearance, feeling tired and overdone, she was amazed to see Kathleen acting parlor-maid.
Will you each come forward and accept the badge of membership?" Kathleen's badges were very much admired, the eager girls bending down towards the light of the lamps in order to examine them more thoroughly.
She will be sorry some day.
To her dying day Kathleen never forgot that return journey.
Hagan breathed her last, poor soul!
You have such strange names in your country.
If mother came down" what wouldn't she say?
"I am all in a puzzle," she said, "to know where to hold the next meeting, for there is no doubt that some of the girls who hate us because they weren't asked to join spied last time; so I want the society to meet the night after next in a new place." "And I'll tell you what I've been thinking," said Aunt Katie; "that I'll be present, and bring a sparkle of old Ireland to help the whole affair.
There is no use in shirking things.
Meanwhile Susy had locked herself into her own room.
To stick through thick and thin each to the other." "Yes!" cried every voice.
There was not the slightest hesitation in the words she uttered.
Her heart beat fast; she clenched one of her hands.
"She has not chosen to appear, and I wish to take quick and instant steps.
I assure you there are only two pounds one shilling and a halfpenny in the till.
HIGH LIFE AND LOW LIFE.
These were brief enough: "To inquire into the insurrection amongst the foundationers, and in particular to cause full investigation to be made with regard to the Irish girl, Kathleen O'Hara." "This is really very astonishing," said Miss Mackenzie, turning to the other governors.
I take a great--- very great--interest in Ruth, Miss Ravenscroft.
I will open the door for you if anybody calls.
A slight look of relief was visible on the faces of the unfortunate girls who had gone to town with Kathleen on the preceding night.
I am very much interested about burglaries.
Kathleen took up the first book she could find and pretended to read.
"I am Alice Tennant," said the young girl, "and I have come at Miss Ravenscroft's request to see her." "Oh yes, miss, certainly.
And yet--I must tell you the truth--I was very nearly declining it." "I don't think I should ever have spoken to you again if you had." "Even so, I was very nearly declining it; for you know I could not have accepted your offer and been friends with Kathleen O'Hara in the way she wants me to be.
Her feet grew icy cold; she could scarcely follow the meaning of her somewhat difficult lessons.
He raised his trembling hand and placed it on her head.
"I don't mind how badly you think of me.
"There, Ruth Craven," she said--"there it is.
Hopkins had justice in her remarks when she begged and implored of Kathleen not to go to the train.
Hopkins's face, "that I'll be very low as regards victuals for the rest of this week.
She then got back into bed.
"I am sorry to say, Miss Mackenzie, that I do.
Yes, I am almost certain.
There was amazement on her face; a feeling of consternation stole into her heart.
It was rather late when Tom returned home.
In the interest of their own conversation they forgot Kathleen.
She turned when Kathleen appeared, and desired her to sit down.
You mean kindly--no one more so--and so I have said to them." "But it will be a nice thing if my girl gets expelled owing to her," said a sour-faced woman, coming forward now and placing her arms akimbo just in front of Kathleen.
"She wouldn't tell." "Of course she wouldn't.
"Here's a cargo for you," she said.
All the people who knew her were beginning to make a fuss over Ruth Craven.
She was afraid just for a moment that she might give way to something, she knew not what, but Alice's look hardened her heart.
She is ever so kind, and so interested.
But a sudden meeting to be convened within forty-eight hours' notice was almost unheard of in their experience.
"Well, it has been a dull sort of thing altogether," said Clara Sawyer.
Tennant returned (she came in looking very hot and tired), it was to see the room tidy, Kathleen seated in her own special chair cobbling the boys' socks as hard as she could, and an appetizing tea on the table.
What?" said the old lady.
"We'd do anything in the world for our queen," said Susy Hopkins, talking to another foundation girl one day as they strolled along the road.
Susy would have to do a lot of exercises; these she could not by any possibility do in the shop.
There is probably some mischief on foot, and it is only fair that we should be forewarned." "I don't want to know," said Ruth; but as Kate slipped her hand through her arm and pulled her along, she said resignedly, "Well, if I must I must." As they strolled across the big playground, Ruth turned and glanced at Cassandra; but Cassandra was busy making friends with Florence, who was very angry with her for her desertion of the day before, and took no notice of Ruth.
The action was done so neatly, and in fact so beautifully, that Alice in spite of herself felt inclined to cry "Bravo!" She knew that if she were to trust herself to that ivy she would probably fall to the bottom and get, if not really killed, at least half so.
She is refined and beautiful.
I always was keen for book-learning." Mrs.
Of course, we can't do anything special in the daytime, unless sometimes on Saturday, when we have a whole holiday; but at least; she says, the nights are our own and we can do as we like.
They could go to the quarry to-night and wait there in order to see if the girls arrive.
It is true she was no longer hungry nor cold, for the fire was plentiful, and the sun also poured in at the small window.
"Susan," said the old lady, "while the kettle is boiling you might as well lay the cloth and get out the tea-things." "No, no," said Susy; "I haven't come here to act servant to you, Aunt Church." "You have a very nasty manner, Susan; and whatever the Almighty may mean to do with you in the future, you had best change your tune or things will go ill with you." Susy sat quite still, apparently indifferent to these remarks.
My poor mother told me so, and I have always followed in her steps.
She seems to be displeasing some of those in authority." "Kathleen had a note too, asking her to call." "Then it must be about her.
"What you call a nice lie is just a very great and awful sin; and if you don't believe me, go to church and listen when the commandments are read." "In future," said Kathleen very calmly, "now that I really know your views, I will always tell you _home truths_.
Oh, this is lovely, isn't it, Ruth?" "Thank goodness I'm not always bothered by that dreadful speaking voice inside me that you seem to have got," said Kathleen.
Yes, there was little doubt of it, Ruth was lovable.
She bent towards her husband and whispered in his ear.
Yes, terrible would be the consequences _if_ they were discovered.
It wanted a quarter to six.
"I mean to have my fun," he said; "and don't you suppose for a moment I'm going to funk a lot of stupid, silly girls.
Now it so happened that Susy, just when the tramp stole in, had gone upstairs to fetch a fresh exercise-book.
How nicely he spoke, and how beautiful he looked--how like my dear old grandfather who has been with God for so many years now." There came a loud rat-tat at the front-door.
At the bottom of the valley was a straight road, and at each side of the road were neat little houses--small and very proper-looking.
I mean to be naughty this afternoon." "I can't help you," said Alice.
Evidently there's a great deal of excitement and watching going on in that school." "There will be a great deal of excitement to-morrow," said Susy.
I have sent for you to consult you, my dear child." "You are very good," said Cassandra, flushing all over her delicate face; "and I am sure," she added, "if it is possible for me to help one like you, I should be only too proud." "That is what I feel; and I think you can help me.
I wish you could have seen him in his uniform; and his father paid for every scrap of the whole thing, and educated him and all.
But never mind; I am never one to press what it ain't convenient to return.
But Kathleen was enjoying herself to the utmost.
Then very calmly she resumed her nonchalant attitude in the front row of the schoolgirls.
She could not help wondering what Ruth would do--whether she would continue to be a valuable aid to the queen of the new society, or whether she would give them up altogether.
But it is sad to relate that when a girl is bent on mischief she is even more mischievous, more daring, more defiant when the sun shines and the earth looks gay.
"This is cosy," she said.
When I was going away he said, 'Bedad, you'll come back a princess, and I'll be proud to see you.' No, I mustn't think of Michael.
I am trying for my scholarship, and I mean to get it.
She felt pleased and self-important.
I mean to be a lady, as good as the best.
Her eyes filled with tears.
"How horrid it is to be poor, and to have such a girl as that in the house!
Once I went with my grandfather, and another time with an uncle from Australia.
But the school does even more than this.
But you had better clearly understand, Susy, that if for any reason you are dismissed from the school there is nothing whatever for you but to take a place as a servant; and that you wouldn't like." "I should think not, indeed.
She'd say, 'We must think of some way of saving, John, or we must do a bit more selling of the stock.' She was a rare one to contrive." Ruth had heard this story of her grandmother many and many a time before, but her grandfather's look frightened her.
But I mean to have my fun to-night." Kathleen quite sobered down as these thoughts came to her.
I am so fond of you--oh, worra, worra!
She is so sweetly pretty, too, and such a lady." "Well, dear, her mother was a real lady; and her father was educated by my dear husband, and was in the army." "It doesn't matter if her father was a duke and her mother a dairymaid," said Kathleen with emphasis.
I can't understand who could have stolen the money.
"You make me laugh whenever I look at you," was Kathleen's next candid remark.
Alice was a very sound sleeper; it did not occur to her that Alice on that particular night might be awake.
"I can show the others what I think of them.
He said that she bowled him over completely.
"The old quarry," whispered Rosy.
Oh, wisha, then, if you only could see it!
"We must make a few rules," she continued when her young companions had ceased to shout--"just a few big rules which will be quite easy for all of us to obey." "Certainly," said Kate.
"It has come over me," he replied, "that I have counted things wrong, and that I'll come out on the right side if I am a bit more careful.
We girls are not allowed to go to London by ourselves." "As if that mattered." "It matters to me, if it does not to you.
Ruth Craven was in her class, and more than one girl remarked on Ruth's appearance.
And last night a certain number of these girls actually took it upon themselves to go to London--to do what, I can't say--and to return at midnight, alone and unchaperoned.
Oh, miss, it's a beautiful country!
I should not have imagined that a quarry--a dear, romantic quarry--could be found anywhere in this neighborhood." "Yes, but there is, and a good big one, too.
I have come from my dear mountain home to be civilised; but civilisation will never suit Kathleen O'Hara.
I always did since I was a little child.
"Do wipe your eyes, Susy; don't let her see you crying.
Her iron-gray hair, her false teeth, her prominent nose, and her rather cruel steel-gray eyes made themselves felt all down the long room.
By-and-by tea was ready, and Susy brought a cup to the old lady.
"Now, if only she will be quick, she will run past me into the passage.
May I sit down a minute while your servant fetches her?
"For my part, I am extremely sorry that the trunk has come.
I don't think I ought to join at all," said Ruth.
The Queen and Her Secret Society 79 VIII.
"No, Kathleen, not even for your sake.
She is in the third remove," replied Miss Ravenscroft, looking with kindly eyes at the child.
She stepped softly, reached her own bed, undressed, and lay down.
I can't tell you how I think about it, and love to feel that my own little lass is doing so well there.
Why should you speak to me in that reproving voice?" "It isn't that; only they were like two angels.
It was a beautiful day in the beginning of winter, with that feeling of summer in the air which comes to cheer us now and then in November.
"Anyhow, she wants to befriend _us_--Oh, do let me speak!"--as Kate interrupted with a hasty exclamation.
They wanted a penn'orth of paper each.
There is to be a meeting of the governors at four o'clock this afternoon--a special meeting, convened in a hurry in order to look into this very matter.
I think little Peter is not well; your aunt is afraid he is catching measles.
"I am proud to say that I am." "We don't think anything of the Irish here." "Oh, don't you?" "But don't be angry, please," continued Susy, "for I am sure you are very nice." "I am nice when I like.
"Of course, I am no friend of Susy's; she is a most contemptible little wretch; but I may as well know what it is all about.
I have 'em in the linen-chest upstairs, and I wouldn't part with 'em to anybody." "I admire your pride," said Mrs.
Have you a young man, Maria?
There was a silence amongst the girls until Mary Rand shouted: "Hip!
You are to come home with me every evening.
It will be awful afterwards when the fun is over." "But we will enjoy ourselves, Susy, while the fun lasts," said Kathleen.
The governors are determined to read us a lesson.
I suppose she didn't understand; she is so new to schools.
I shall love you even if I don't belong to the society.
I won't betray Kathleen O'Hara." CHAPTER XXIII.
And the sleeves--aren't they just illegant entirely?
I will give you--- I will give you an Irish diamond set in a brooch if you will help me." This sounded a very grand offer indeed to Susy Hopkins, who lived in the most modest way, and had not a jewel of any sort in her possession.
Alice went on her knees and peered through the keyhole: Kathleen was seated by her dressing-table, and there was a sound of the furious scratching of a pen quite audible.
Church was a person of discernment.
Isn't it a pretty one?
I shall be sorry for her, of course." "But what do you mean?
"I think I can manage my own affairs," she added, and then she was silent, not exactly cross, but lost in thought.
Tom was the one who generally ran across to the old lady's with the money; and so fond was she of him that she often gave him a piece of cake, and even on one or two rare occasions kept him to dinner.
Half a moment later she was in the fresh air outside.
It was a pleasant morning: the windows were open; the schoolrooms were all well ventilated; the teachers, the best of their kind, were stimulating in their lectures and in their conversation.
"I will make it up to you.
She then wrapped herself in an old waterproof cloak--for the sunshiny morning had developed into an evening of thick clouds and threatening rain--and went downstairs.
At the other side of the common was a long, narrow, winding passage which, after a quarter of a mile of tortuous turning, led right up a back-way to the great terminus.
She happens to be rich and beautiful, and to have a taking way; but all the others are not like her, I am certain of it." "Anyhow, whether they are or not, I am glad to belong to the society," said Susy.
Tom turned first red and then white, and rushed into the passage.
And now, will you help or will you not?" "Well, I never!" said Mrs.
"If the worst--the very worst--comes," she said to Susy, "we can sell them; but I cling to them as a piece of respectability that I never want to part from.
Church; "but if you are certain sure she will keep her word--" "If I am sure of anybody, it is Miss Kathleen." "She looks a good sort." "And then, you know, Aunty Church, you can clinch matters by having a nice little tea for her; and afterwards, if you don't speak up, I will.
That sort of education can only be given by conforming to principles.
If I can only get a scholarship I shall be able to help grandfather.
"And so that is what the governors are doing--horrid, sneaky, disagreeable things!
"And I have brought a note-book with me, and if you will dictate them, Kathleen, I will jot them down." "That is easy enough," said Kathleen.
He took them into the yard outside the station, and called a four-wheeler.
Now to Kathleen the fact of being interviewed by Miss Ravenscroft only caused a sense of annoyance, and unwonted irritation; Ruth was surprised, partly delighted and partly afraid; but Cassandra, whose father had been a teacher, and who lived all her life in the scholastic world, considered it an honor almost too great for words that she should be specially interviewed by so great a person as Miss Ravenscroft.
By-and-by she saw a girl walking leisurely up the road; she was a shabbily dressed and rather vulgar girl.
Dave, you are a treasure; you are a darling; you are everything that is exquisite." It was Alice's place to pour out the tea.
I must go on now, but I feel somehow----" "What?" said Susy, with some impatience.
Isn't London a perfect place?
She looked back, and caught the eyes of at least a dozen of those foundationers whom she had pitied and helped and been jolly with.
"Oh, I think--I think I love her still.
And this blue bodice is quite nice for the evening, and so is the skirt belonging to it; but this and this and this--I wouldn't wear these until I went home if I were you, my love." Kathleen glanced at her.
"I must insist on my society adhering to it.--Ruth Craven, why are you silent?" "Because I earnestly wish I had not joined.
A spirit of defiance came over her.
Cassandra hoped to have a talk with Ruth before she went home, but when she looked round for her little favorite she could not find her anywhere.
Church glanced from one to the other.
I don't think the governors ought to put any girl in such a position." "They are sorry, but they say they must.
"You see what it means to have a nice little girl like me to wait on you.
if I could only show my sweet, sweet little badge," she thought, "it would make me perfect.
She is quite hopeless," said Alice.
You don't know the meaning of the thing.
Instead of the forty girls she expected to meet, she saw not more than about half-a-dozen.
But I suppose they were on the right side; only I do sometimes hate being on the right side.--Don't you, Kathleen?" "Yes," said Kathleen in a whisper, and she squeezed Susy's hand.
Kathleen is in the highest spirits; she is just laughing and dancing about and looking like a sunbeam." "Dear, dear!" said Mrs.
The tramp was in the humor to do something desperate; he entered the shop under the pretense of begging; made straight for the till, pulled it open, and took out a handful of money.
You can take one of your lesson-books with you if you like.
"And you'd have so much to tell them; because all the rest are Irish, and they have never gone beyond their own country.
Mother shall send over some things from town--a little pink ham cut very thin, and new-laid eggs--" "And water-cress," said Mrs.
It was to have been your noble privilege to save the school in a time of extremity.
Church looked first skeptical, then curious, then keenly desirous.
I can't quite get over it.
I am not interfering with Alice's." "But you see, Kathleen, she can't get to her half." "The door is in my half, you know," said Kathleen very meekly, "so I don't see that she has any cause to complain.
The front-door opened right into the kitchen, and Mrs.
She knows no fear, is not guided by any sort of principle, and would, in short, do anything." "Well, go to school, Alice, and be quick home, for I have a great deal I want you to help me with." Alice made no reply, and Mrs.
I only see how the matter looks to me, and how it would have looked to father, and how it looks to grandfather.
"But you will think it over, Ruth.
Church, "of all the impertinent, bare-faced, wicked little girls, you beat them all.
The Great Shirley School is not meant for rich girls: a girl of the kind you have just described ought not to become a member of the school." "Oh, that is all very fine; but it seems her mother was educated here, and swore a sort of vow that when Kathleen was old enough she should come to this school and to no other.
She curtsied before her little glass.
"Come along; we may as well know.
when I put mine on on Sunday mother will gape.
Tennant could make out, people who were of the greatest importance to her had left messages, and yet none of the messages could be attended to.
Miss O'Flynn took her niece to Dublin with her, and gave her an expensive and very unnecessary wardrobe; and Mrs.
Come and have dinner with me to-night at the Métropole, and bring any friend you like." "What a lark!" thought Kathleen.
I'll be able to make my own terms now with John Short and Harry Reid and the rest of the chaps.
The blouse filled her thoughts, otherwise she might have been in raptures over her pretty silver locket and its green ribbon.
She did not say much, but she seemed quite gentle and not at all cross.
"Alice can't think that I want to go by train," thought Kathleen.
Kathleen gave a little start and faced her.
I saved and stinted and toiled and got him a commission in the army.
"I should think they would like it.
"I wish you wouldn't lie on the bed in your muddy boots." No answer.
She took it up and read: "Gone to London to Aunt Katie O'Flynn." "Well, she is a naughty girl.
She looked to the right then, and met as many more faces of girls whom she knew, and who were members of the Wild Irish Girls' Society.
Why don't you show yourself?
"I am sure a sweeter young lady never came into this house." Kathleen chatted on to the retainers, as she called cook and Maria, until she had toasted enough bread.
I will, and I can.
Time had been given Kathleen to take her place, to recover any emotion she might have felt by her sudden entrance, and then Miss Ravenscroft rose to her feet.
Ross was a fashionable woman who went a good deal into London society, talked about the Great Shirley School to her different friends, and was considered an expert on the subject of girls' education.
Yet it don't matter to me.
O'Hara, having heard a great deal of Mrs.
Your mother was a governess, but she was a lady by birth; her father was a clergyman.
Miss Renshaw will coach you and me together.
"Granny is not very well, and I ought not to have left her, even to have dinner here; but I couldn't help myself." Cassandra brought her friend into the house.
Church had a memory and, as she believed, a grievance.
She slipped some sovereigns into her purse, tucked it for safety into the bosom of her dress, and then put on her hat and jacket.
I only get the chance three times a week, and I must not neglect it." "David hopes to be no end of a swell some day," remarked Ben.
I really can't stay another moment, Mary.
It would be rare fun to have her there." "But she is not a bit poor.
Well, no more for the present.
Do not suppose that I want you to be a spy in this matter, but what is troubling the school must be discovered, and within the next few days.
"Now, there is one girl in the school who could tell us--a charming girl, a new girl--for she also only joined this term--but in all respects the opposite of Kathleen O'Hara.
I have known good genteel living in my lifetime, and I expect that Providence means me to know it again before I die.
We cannot possibly let a little girl who is rebellious, who keeps secrets to herself which she ought to tell for the benefit of the school, continue in our midst.
However, I needn't worry you about that.
Two or three people arrived during Maria's absence, and Kathleen went promptly to the door and said, "Not at home, ma'am," in a determined voice, and with rather a scowling face, to these arrivals.
While the ladies were enjoying their meal they did not observe that a round boyish face occasionally appeared at the little glass partition which divided Mrs.
"I have a lot of things to ask you, and a lot of things to tell you." "Come along then, dear child.
But when Kathleen was seen going through the gates, her arm flung round Ruth's waist, and all the sixty girls following at her heels, such a cheer went up from the anxious mothers and fathers and brothers--for many fresh people had come to swell the crowd since Kathleen entered the school--as was never heard before in Merrifield.
Sides would be taken for and against her.
"Yet I am an Irish girl, and I'm not going to show funk.
"What a blessing," said Mrs.
Would you like that best, or would you rather have a profession and be made a gentleman?' "'The gentleman part doesn't matter,' said our boy in reply to that; 'but I think, father, if you can give me my choice, I'd like best to be that which, if necessary, would oblige me to give my life,' "'What do you mean?' asked his father, and the lad explained with his eyes shining.
Oh, it was a good, good time they were about to have!
A moment later the servant returned.
Then she sat down by her grandfather's side.
Do you know, now, when I look at you and see the pretty little girl you are turning into, and observe your lady-like ways, which every one remarks on, I think of the time when your father was your age." "Yes, granny," said Ruth, brightening up and looking earnestly at the old lady; "you never care to talk about father, but I should greatly like to hear about him this morning." "Well, child, I don't talk of him because it hurts me too much.
"I am glad to hear it.
We can meet at the railway station between five and six, and go off all by ourselves to--But where shall we go when we get to town?" "Couldn't we go to a theatre--to the pit at one of the theatres?" "If only Aunt Katie O'Flynn was with us it would be as right as right," said Kathleen; "but dare we go alone?" "I am sure we dare.
"Now, tell me, child, tell me," he said.
I hope some other way may be discovered of bringing her to order." "You are quite right.
She looked down, so that the fun in her eyes could not be seen.
Church that it is absolutely quite certain that she will get it.
"In this blouse I shall look a positive beauty," she thought.
Read it, and give me the answer where I have asked you." Susy Hopkins, a most ordinary little girl, who had no position of any sort in the school, colored high with delight.
There was a time when I'd have liked it well, but not now.
You are a clever girl, Ruth.
Ben heard her, came and sat down on an ottoman not far off, and began kicking his legs.
She did not darn well; but then, Mrs.
Answer me: did you?" "I can't answer you, Miss O'Hara.
"Ah, Susy, here I am.
Ruth mustn't love anybody in the school very, _very_ much except me.
Well, I can't stay another minute.
What she said to him was a matter of no moment; she had written, and to complain of her!
"And when all is said and done, you will have to remember that you owe it to me.
Her heart was beating wildly; she had a strange medley of feelings within.
I would if I hadn't promised to go out.
Naughty Susy, having made up her mind to deny herself a new frock and new boots, had given the matter no further consideration.
She hadn't a thing handy in the place.
She gave it to me for my supper.
She put down her penny on the counter, and Susy supplied her from a special box.
It was about those almshouses, but--" "Look here, child; you tell me first, and then I'll consider." "No, no," said Susy.
Why girls, Miss Ravenscroft and the governors can do nothing to us unless they have proof, and they will have no proof if we are all true to each other.
You owe me between thirty and forty pounds, and I'd like, I will say, to see the color of my money.
Can't you manage it, dear Mrs.
Perhaps I'll settle down to work.
"I wonder--" said Kathleen softly.
If I were to tell I should be a traitor to Kathleen.
Miss Jane Smyth murmured the words "Wild Irish Girls" under her breath.
I am afraid that they know the name of the leader, but they must also get the names of her companions--all the names--and as much as possible of the rules of the society.
Oh, there she is!" "Kathleen, Kathleen!" called out Alice.
"Now I must rush back to dinner.
She felt a wave of tempestuous blood pressing against her heart; then it all rushed back in a fiery color into her cheeks and in brightness to her eyes.
It would be a very great pleasure to me if I saw you presented with a musical scholarship." "Would it?" said Kathleen, glancing at the thin and careworn face of the music teacher.
Do you know, Kathleen, I think he'd like to see you.
"Oh, mother," cried the girl, "where is Kathleen?
The crowning moment of her life had arrived.
Ruth's eyes looked full into hers.
But they are not going to subdue me, so they needn't think it.
She was very bright and very smart, and even Alice gave her an approving glance.
"I like a lot of people," she said--"I like Mrs.
The pale-blue cashmere blouse, with its real lace and embroidered trimmings, might have been worn by any girl, even in the highest station of life.
"I will walk with you a little way," she said; "I have something I want to say." "One moment first," said Cassandra.
Even the trustees of the trust fund were women.
I did, darling; I did.
Oh, don't I just adore honey?
Kathleen looked up then, saw the anxiety in Mrs.
Your parents met in India; they fell in love, and married.
"Cassandra Weldon would never take the very least notice of me; and none of us foundation girls like her at all." "Well, it is extremely unfair," said Kathleen.
If in the future she could not play in public, she resolved at least to earn her living as a music teacher.
Kathleen had given herself exactly the right length of time.
Now within the last week he has been at it again, just as if 'twas yesterday." "He has an old account-book on the table now, granny," said Ruth.
I got your note after I had read the telegram.
I meant to run away when my affinity would have nothing to do with me." "Really, Kathleen, you are a most extraordinary girl." "Of course I am," said Kathleen.
Now my dear girls of the Great Shirley School, you must clearly understand that no establishment of this kind can be worked except on certain lines, and these lines mean order, method, and obedience.
They were about half-way through breakfast when there came a ring at the front-door, and Cassandra Weldon's voice was heard.
Often at home I go off with my boy cousins, and we have such a good feed.
Hopkins, whose cheeks were flushed, and who looked considerably worried, replied that it had been left to her by her own mother.
Your mother died at your birth, and you came home to us.
"What is wrong?" "There is plenty wrong," said Susy.
"My dear, the path of right is sometimes cruel.
But you ought to have tea for Miss O'Hara and Miss Katie O'Flynn; you really ought.
when he lay dead on the field of battle he came very much out on the right side, to my thinking.
"Why, Kathleen, any one would suppose you were going to a concert," said Mrs.
She was naturally vain and frivolous, except in the presence of her dearest friend.
Now then, Kathleen, I will speak to you about the other matter which obliged me to send you a message last night." "Thank you, ma'am," said Kathleen.
It isn't everybody who has got loving grandparents like us." "And it isn't many old bodies who have got such a dear little granddaughter," said the old man, smiling at Ruth.
He was weather-beaten and slipshod, and altogether made a most disreputable appearance.
"And what should there be nice and tasty?
"If you take her part I shall hate you all the rest of my life," said Alice, speaking with great passion.
I trust to goodness you are not getting extravagant.
There must not be friendship--not real friendship, I mean--between us and them." "You are a paying girl yourself," suddenly exclaimed Mary Rand.
He is never troubled on account of the Land League or anything else, and Kathleen will have lots and lots of money.
"Don't you see," she said impatiently, "that I want to give away some of these things?
To-day, however, all was peace and quiet.
I grieve to say that a box of finery has arrived for Kathleen--most unsuitable, for she has plenty of clothes.
Nevertheless, grandfather, speaking to me from your own heart, ought the girl to betray her companions?" "Upon my word!" said the old man, who was intensely moved by Ruth's story.
I have no end of schemes in my head.
We earnestly beg of you, therefore; not to make a martyr of yourself in a silly and ridiculous cause.--Mrs.
I will put the gold and silver in immediately.
Miss Katie O'Flynn and Her Niece 204 XVIII.
I do say this is fun." Susy was now quite petted by her companions.
But Kathleen felt she loved her all the better for it.
Hopkins was busy in the kitchen.
She's terribly unhappy, and she will be certain sure to pay you next week.
My principal object in starting this society is to put those horrid paying girls in their proper places.
You can manage it quite easily." Kathleen did not wait for any further discussion, but ran out of the room.
This trio formed perhaps the most objectionable set in the school.
It was only half-past seven.
Let the head-mistress and the governors say what they please." "Hurrah for Kathleen O'Hara!
The mischievous, dare-devil expression of her face when awake was softened in her sleep.
"As to the chivalrous nature of your silence, I fail to see it.
She said after a pause that she was willing to reconsider matters, and that she and all the other governors would meet in a day or two to give their opinion.
"If Aunty O'Flynn was to look at her Kathleen!
What's the good of making ourselves melancholy on a night like this?" "If I were expelled," said Clara Sawyer, "I should leave Merrifield.
"Oh, daddy mine, my heart is sore for you," she was saying in a tone which caused Alice to pause and look at her attentively.
"I shall feign sleepiness at a quarter to nine," she said to herself, "and go upstairs.
"What fun it all will be!" The girls laughed, and clustered with more and more friendliness round Kathleen.
I can't quite hear you." "I am sorry," said Ruth then, "but I can't tell you." Miss Mackenzie, without any show of emotion, immediately entered Ruth's answer in a little book which she held in her hand.
"She may snub you as much as she likes, but you have got me to cling on to." "And you've got me, too, Kitty," said Clara Sawyer.
The head-mistress at the school and the governors have found out about the secret society.
Tennant's house at a quarter to one.
When Susy appeared her mother called out to her: "Come along, you ungrateful girl.
Her father is very rich, and he keeps dogs and horses and carriages and--oh, everything that rich people keep.
Tennant, that I will work off the steam, and will be all right to-morrow.
It would do a lot of mischief if the school heard of it, and we would most likely be expelled.
You do look tired, and tired you will go on looking until I take you to Carrigrohane to rest you and to feed you with good milk and good fruit and good eggs and good cream.--Now then, boys, lift up that trunk.
This lady was the great Miss Ravenscroft, the head of the school, one of the most persuasive, most fascinating, and most influential teachers in the whole realm of girlhood.
If they were men and she was a man, Janey Ford had whispered to her great friend Edith Hart, they would follow her to the death.
She at least had forgotten what might follow this expedition.
The rest of the foundation girls at first determined that they would leave her with her fine friends, but when Kathleen insisted on Ruth's joining the secret society of the Wild Irish Girls, they were obliged to submit.
We used to sit in Phoenix Park.
Cassandra Weldon is my friend, and there are others.
I was once in Ireland, in the west, and I liked the people and the land, and the ways of the people and the looks of the land, and for the sake of that visit I am not going to be hard on a little Irish girl during her first sojourn in the school.
That look seemed suddenly to steady her nerves.
The Governors of the School Examine Ruth 242 XXI.
Now, quite the nearest way to the railway station was across the common.
Indeed, I'm glad I'm not made on Alice's pattern, even if she is your daughter.
The tramp was hungry and penniless.
When Alice came back that evening Kathleen was sound asleep in her little bed, dreaming of Carrigrohane and the old home.
It was silly of you to hide in there; as if we minded." "But Kathleen, you ought to mind," said Susy; "for it would be the very last straw if we were discovered and there is a boy found amongst us.
You are a kindred spirit of mine, Ruth Craven, and you can't get away from me, not even if you will." The fifteen minutes for recreation came to an end, and the girls returned to the schoolroom.
"If you mean to expel Ruth you will expel me," she said.
I really wonder if you English girls who are assembled here in the old quarry to-night have the least idea what it means to be a wild Irish girl.
They don't like to see a great overgrown girl like you in a class with little children; it does neither you nor the school credit.
What was there in the young face that stimulated, that caused fear to slink out of sight and courage to come to the fore, that caused hearts to beat high with generous emotion?
She tossed her head and walked away.
Of course, I can eat anything, but I don't specially like them; so if you don't mind I will have a sausage, too, and a plateful of shrimps afterwards, and some sardines.
You make the promise first, faithfully and truly, and then I will tell you." After this there was a considerable wrangle between the old woman and the young girl, but all in good time Susy won her desire, and Mrs.
Weldon's, and Ruth Craven is to be there.
She seemed to have a kind-hearted sort of face." "She's as right as rain, aunty; and so are the two boys.
I lived with the quality for so long.
I saw that very dull Cassandra Weldon, and I noticed a few companions of hers who were much the same sort.
She was stout, and she wore a short jacket and a big--very big--picture-hat." "You don't mean," said Mrs.
What do you mean now?" "I mean just what I say.
The room was in darkness.
They belong to Ireland and to me--to the home of the free and to Kathleen O'Hara.
She's a splendid girl; and, to tell you the honest truth, none of you are fit for her to touch you with a pair of tongs." "Dear, dear!" said Susy.
Ruth was walking slowly by with her usual demure and sweet expression.
When I leave school I'll be able to take the position my dear father, had he lived, would have wished for me.
"Then of course you will be wise, Ruth.
The other foundationers would feel it; there would be a sense of martyrdom.
Kathleen gave Maria sixpence for the washing of an extra cloth, and the well-spread table looked quite fresh and wonderfully like a school-feast.
"I want to see the fun." "Go, both of you.
She's very reserved and very, very formal, but she's a good soul, and I won't worry her.
After the Fun Comes the Deluge 314 XXVIII.
If you will let me have my fling, I do assure you, Mrs.
"Will you come to the drawing-room, young ladies?" He conducted the children down some wide passages covered with thick Turkey carpets, opened the folding doors of a great drawing-room, and left them to themselves.
Two cabs were secured for the little party, and with their kind protectors they were taken back to Charing Cross.
"It's a kiss I'm going to give you, my beauty," she said.
The boys were also in the highest good-humor; Kathleen's mirth was contagious.
I want to go and see Aunt Church." "Why should you do that, child?
I am so short from the loss of that money that I can't pay Aunt Church for at least another week.
"In addition to your misdemeanors, I should advise you not to be late for prayers just at present." "Thanks so much!" said Kathleen in a sarcastic tone.
Nothing could be quieter than her attitude; she did not show a trace of emotion.
By go doing you will save the school and yourself.
"But won't you forgive her?
Ruth had enjoyed her hour with Miss Renshaw, and was altogether in high spirits.
Susy had no particular eye for pretty views, or she might have pleased herself with the wonderful tints of the sky, and the autumnal shades which had not altogether deserted the neighboring woods.
"Come along, Ruthie; we will be late.
I know that Alice Tennant has been questioned already.
The two girls ran downstairs together.
The boyish face bobbed up now and again, made appealing faces in Mrs.
Your conduct requires stringent measures.
Come forward in a body at once." What was there in the young voice that impelled?
And if you will stand by me, you may be quite sure that I will stand by you.
"There are so many different views about riches," she said at last.
We are going for a walk across the common.--We shall be in to tea, dear mother.
"And why do you and Mrs.
"Now," she said, "this is good.
"It isn't the first time that Kathleen and I have got up with the sunrise.
Church," said Kathleen, "you are perfectly sweet, and I can't tell you how grateful we are; but we are in something of a hurry, so perhaps you wouldn't mind telling the rest of that story about butter and honey to Aunt Katie when you are in Ireland.
"The school-bell has just rung, and they are opening the doors.
One or two of the teachers would be the best.
This gaily dressed little person entered a room full of sober people.
Kathleen, as years went on, became far and away the most popular girl in the school.
She is too pale for blue," was Mrs.
Hopkins had no power to stop her.
So she did accept it, and--Are you listening, grandfather?" "Indeed I am, little maid.
I'll threaten to complain to you if she doesn't behave." Here Susy laughed merrily.
"What has that horrid girl done to you?" "Nothing--nothing." "But she has." "Please, Cassie, she is not horrid." "Oh, well, we won't discuss her.
I must not let him think that.
Are you right now, Kathleen--can you slip upstairs without making any noise?
"We are going to have a glorious time," whispered Susy to Kate Rourke as they made their way to their respective classes.
"I must have dreamt it," thought Kathleen.
They were not even to take any notice of each other until they were off.
I will go round to the police-station this very afternoon and get Police-Constable Macartney to take it up." "But, mother, the thief, whoever he is, has left the place long before now.
She spoke gently, and then she added: "But there is only one piano at the Tennants', and that is in the drawing-room, and Alice or the boys or Mrs.
So it is this way: we have got into trouble, we Wild Irish Girls, and dear Miss Kathleen is determined that, come what will, the society must not suffer; and she thinks you could help.
"What are you going to do this afternoon?" said Alice, who was lying back in an easy-chair with an open novel in her hand.
You can go to your horrid, stupid lessons if you like, but it won't be Kathleen O'Hara who will accompany you.
"Oh, there you are!" she said.
It's a very bobbish little kettle, and it has cranky whims just as though it were a human.
"I can't make out what has put it into his head.
"She is the most awful girl I ever heard of," thought Alice.
Won't she give us a time now?
But Kathleen stood serenely on the ground, and glanced up at the window from which she had let herself down.
She despised herself for her own action, but she did not dread discovery.
"Don't you think it is rather mean," she said, "to give me up when you promised to belong to me--to give me up altogether and to go with those dreadful, proud paying girls?" "It isn't that," said Ruth, "and you know it.
I should like to introduce her to mother." "Well, I never!" said Hannah.
Don't keep me, please; it is very important." "But I don't know who Ruth Craven is." "Oh, mother, I thought every one knew her.
I want you to be my Prime Minister, I want you to be with me in all things." "I don't know that I can." "And why should she be your Prime Minister?" said Kate in an ugly voice.
"My word," said Tom, "I must be in it!" "But you can't, Tom.
"And now I want to know if you are prepared to stand by me through thick and thin?" "That we are!" was shouted in one vivid, clear girlish note.
I should like if possible to have all the foundation girls on my side, but that must be decided at our next meeting.
No one could help giving her a most sincere respect.
Your horrid brooch doesn't interest us.
You know there are two of them.
"I have aired beds for quality of that sort, and I have watched them when they danced in the big ballroom, and watched them, too, when their sweethearts came along, and seen--oh, yes, many, many things have I seen, and many, many things have I heard of those fair young ladies of quality.
They left messages, and I have forgotten them.
Nothing would induce me to trouble him on the subject." CHAPTER II.
You didn't tell me that you were going out.
And what may your name be, my sweet young lady?" "Kathleen O'Hara." "Oh, dear, but it's a mouthful." "I'm not English," said Kathleen; "I'm Irish.
She makes you see a thing at the first glance.
It was she who gave me that blouse that you seemed to think I had bought with the money which was taken from mother's till.
She bent low over her treasure, examining the blue embroidery, which was rendered still more fascinating with small stitches of pink silk, looking with ecstacy at the real lace round the neck and cuffs and finally pressing the delicate color against her blooming cheek.
She could be as obstinate as a mule.
The untidy table did not trouble her in the least; she was accustomed to things of that sort at home.
She's the prettiest, sweetest, bonniest thing I ever saw in my life.
It seemed only yesterday that she was at home in the old house, petted by the servants, adored by her father, worshipped by all her relatives--the young queen of the castle, free as the air, followed by her dogs, riding on her pony--and now she was here in this hideous, poor, fifth-class house, going to that ugly school.
Her nose was decidedly snub, her mouth wide; but her eyes were dark and bright, and she had fairly good eyebrows.
"Well, I am queen." "Certainly you are!" "Who else could be?" "Of course you are queen!" "Darling!" "Dear!" "Sweet!" "Duck!" fell from various pairs of lips.
I must go upstairs now and fetch Kathleen.
"This rule must hold good," repeated Kathleen.
Florence was a very nice girl, but jealousy was her bane.
"And I am your captain, am I not girls?" "Indeed you are.
"What's that?" "It's what you ought to have, Tom, and it's to be hoped you will have it when the time comes." "Looks like it!" cried Tom, rubbing his hands in a meaning way.
She came up close to the old man and said: "Do you know, you have a look of my own old grandfather.
"I have dared to do what none of them approved of, and I am not a bit the worse for it.
I had one last night." "No, you had not." "Alice, dear, why do you speak to Kathleen like that?" said her mother.
"But this cook might, if a nice Irish girl, who has plenty of money, gave it to her.
It's my clothes--my sort of a kind of a treasure.
She said that a polite lie was an awful sin, so in this house I must cleave to the home truths.
You are in an awfully low class.
Ruth longed to avoid them, but they saw her and clustered round her, and each and all began to whisper in her ears: "You will be faithful, Ruth; nothing will induce you to tell.
"Ah, aunty!" said Kathleen, "this is good.
She told Kathleen so much about her life that she was interested in spite of herself!
"I can't," she said; "it isn't my style.
"You hardly ever ask me to your house, and when I ask you to mine you always have an excuse ready.
"I won't ask you to do any more to-day," she said.
I'm afraid the night is a little bit chilly.--Miss Kathleen, I wish I could get up and offer you a seat, but as it is--" "Oh, nonsense!" said Kathleen.
"It is tiresome that I cannot show it.
There's your own old bath-chair that Uncle Church used to be moved about in before he died." "To be sure, there is," said Mrs.
"What could be the matter with the pretty young lady?" thought the man.
Will you have it ready for us not later than five o'clock?
He kept a rather wild establishment, however.
I think, on the contrary, that I am very rich.
I should not loathe it so much if it was not for Alice." "Ah!
Kathleen, when she entered the school and started her society, had not the slightest idea that, while she was trying to help the foundationers, she was really leading them into very grave mischief.
Now she was truly a very swift runner, but as she was running to-night, whom should she meet but Mrs.
She stood still for a minute.
There are six of us here, and we wish to tell you that if you now refuse the information which we wish to obtain from you, you will do _wrong_.
May I sit here until she comes?" "Of course, my dear," said Mrs.
Kathleen was all enthusiasm, gay life, valor, daring; Ruth's gentle face and quiet voice gave little indication of the real depth of character which lay beneath.
Is it true that you encourage certain girls in this school"--here Miss Ravenscroft put up her hand to check Kathleen's words--"to rebellion and insubordination?" "I don't know what insubordination is," said Kathleen, shaking her head.
We will have some refreshments at a restaurant, and then we will go to the pit of one of the theatres.
When she left the head-mistress's presence she felt a certain sense almost of elation.
You can't imagine what I am feeling.
Children like the foundationers, who are received at the school without being expected to pay anything, who get the most admirable education free of all cost, daring to set up their opinion against girls who, without being in any sense their superiors--one doesn't want to imply that for an instant--are yet vastly superior in numbers.
He was only thirteen, and up to the present no pretty girl had ever taken the slightest notice of him.
They are proud in the right way, but they never look down on folks." Yes, Susy was a happy girl now.
"You know the Irish girl who has come to live with the Tennants?" "Can't say I do," said Kate.
Why should I have made myself so terribly obnoxious to you?
She went to school in the morning, but as soon as ever lesson hours were over she flew back to her mother's shop.
But Alice--she is--" "What, darling?" "A prig, aunty.
You wouldn't think so, would you, miss?" "It gives her great credit," said Kathleen in a calm voice.
The train for London was signaled; she had not an instant to lose.
It's a very great honor for an old lady to be entertained to her tea in a castle.
I'm fairly taken with that microscope.
The girls were so completely in league with each other, so full of delight over the new amusement which Kathleen had started in their midst, that they had no time to be supercilious or disagreeable to the paying girls, who were left in peace.
Why do you stare at me?" "Sorry," replied Alice.
And me to be out of my money that I counted upon.
You do wrong to conceal insurrection.
"What meddlesome people!" "Don't!" said Kathleen.
That means sixty pounds a year.
I detest people who are always grinning and smiling and showing themselves off.
"You have been sent here to learn.
"Don't talk exactly like that," said Miss Dove, who, in spite of herself, was attracted by the sweet voice and sweeter eyes.
Nothing will induce us to give you up.
She knelt for a moment at her bedside and prayed that God would keep her from quite hating Kathleen.
Anyhow, this is delicious fun, and I mean to go on with it.
Had nothing happened to hinder her, she would have been on the platform three minutes before the train came in.
"That is the curious part of it.
I don't wish to be good at all to-day.
"We ought to have meat--" she was beginning, when there came a bang and a scuffle, a girlish laugh, and Kathleen, leaning fondly on both the boys, appeared.
No, whatever the danger, she knew she could keep her own.
Will meet you at a quarter to nine outside Mrs.
they are getting into hot water," she said to herself.
They crowded round her at all hours; a glance from her eyes was sufficient to compel them to do exactly what she wished.
She put on her plainest hat and a little reefer coat which looked neat and substantial.
The hour was just before dinner, and the wide hall of the hotel was full.
I hope you have carefully considered the position and are prepared to act openly and honorably.
Tennant, with a smile; "but as a matter of fact I am not forty yet." "Not forty!" said Kathleen.
It is wonderful how smart they look." "They are very lucky ladies--very lucky," said Mrs.
She darted to one side of the road.
"You are sure you wouldn't rather wait in the house?" "No, really.
She is such a queer old body; and the neighbors sometimes drop in on Sundays.
When the two girls arrived they found five other girls waiting for them.
Mother said I might ask you." "I wish I could come," said Alice; "but we are expecting Kathleen." "Oh, the Irish girl!
She's overworked, and that's the truth." Kathleen saw that she was annoying Alice, and proceeded with great gusto to expand her theory with regard to Mrs.
You'd have to be just as fascinating, just as pretty, but different somehow--I mean--" "Oh, do tell me what you mean, and be quick.
Do you greatly object to my sleeping during that time?" "No, cross patch," said Kathleen, turning angrily on her pillow.
Help me now into the parlor.
This was placed on the table which was arranged in the yard for the purpose, and its light fell now on the vivid coloring and beautiful face of the Irish girl.
I always keep three cakes in three tin boxes, and you can have a morsel of the stalest; it is more than two months old, but you won't mind that." "Not me," said Tom, "I like stale cakes best," he added, determined to show his aunt that he was ready to be pleased with everything.
"I can have a look at your books while I am waiting, can't I, little woman?" said the old man.
Aren't they just sweet?" As she spoke she took out of the box the palest blue cashmere blouse, most exquisitely trimmed with blue embroidery flecked with pink silk.
"You must hide them," said Kathleen.
Well, I suppose I must give her the message." She hurried her steps as these last thoughts came to her, and presently she stood outside the principal entrance of the little church.
You don't mean that _she's_ coming here?" "Yes; why not?
"I'll tell Miss Kathleen that she is to be at Aunt Church's house quite half-an-hour before the rest of the girls, so that aunty can have her talk with her and arrange about the almshouse, and also that Kathleen and Miss O'Hara may have their meal in comfort.
"And you really mean that you would introduce that girl to Mrs.
Part of her power lay in her potential attitudes, in the possibilities which she seldom, except on very rare occasions, exhibited to their fullest extent.
She told me about you and your position with the governors." "Oh, need we talk of that?" said Ruth coloring, stopping in her walk, and turning to face Cassandra.
"Perhaps some one would tell me when the next train for Merrifield leaves Charing Cross," was Ruth's next remark.
Kate had made up her mind not to take the least notice of Susy.
Then Miss Ravenscroft spoke gently, for in spite of herself Kathleen's attractive face, the wilful, daring, and yet affectionate glance in the eyes, attracted her.
I suppose she is in a hurry to get home." "Thank you," said Cassandra.
I must go back, for grandfather would be terrified if I didn't go home.
I can't think how the money was stolen." "Why don't you put it into the hands of the police?" said Tom.
it was a proud moment.
She went up to him and closed the big account-book.
Nothing ever induced Alice to neglect her studies, for did not the scholarship depend on her doing her very utmost?
Tom enjoyed his visits to Mrs.
Craven was seated by the fire.
The distance from her mother's shop to the Cravens' cottage was a matter of ten minutes' quick walking.
I want the money; I want it just as much as your poor mother does." "But you have money in the bank, haven't you?" "That is no affair of yours, Tom Hopkins.
"Let me in at once, Kathleen," she said.
"As though I had not done right--as though I had something to conceal.
Presently she thrust out a moist little hand, and out of the moisture produced a half-melted peppermint drop.
I used to cobble for old nurse when I was at home." "But I shouldn't like you to cobble these." "Oh, I can darn, you know." "Then do, Kathleen.
I made up my mind when I drew that hundred pounds from my dear husband's hard-earned savings that, whatever happened, I'd make that sum last me for all expenses for three years.
"As you have asked me a question, I will give you an answer.
I will make myself a fresh cup." Susy stood still for a moment.
"I have sent for you, Cassandra, neither to reprove nor to give you ordinary counsel.
We are never rude like that in Ireland.
She was decidedly angry with Ruth for having, as she said to herself, "snubbed her" the day before.
"She says when the summer comes we shall have all sorts of nice excursions.
I told you how that night when I had the misfortune to go and see your aunt and look after her sick child, some one came into the shop and stole nineteen-and-sixpence out of the till.
When Susy saw Kate Rourke and Ruth Craven she uttered a little scream of delight.
But what is the matter, Ruth?
There are all those poor girls waiting in the yard so long.
Mother, must we keep her long?
The table, the chairs, and the little sideboard were pushed about; everything seemed to be at a loss until Susy peremptorily took the duster out of Tom's hand and reduced chaos to order.
I shall see Kathleen O'Hara, but from what you say, and from what I have heard, I am greatly shocked to have to say it, but I think it possible that she may not be induced to tell the exact truth.
"Not quite so objectionable," continued Alice in a calm voice.
There was a special class which she was anxious not to miss, for in spite of herself she was becoming interested in certain portions of her lessons.
It must therefore be put a stop to, and the first way to put a stop to anything of the sort is to discover all about it.
You won't tell, will you, Ruth?" Ruth made no reply in words.
I didn't steal the blouse; I came by it honestly, and it wasn't bought out of any of Aunt Church's money." "That remains to be proved," said Mrs.
"Well, don't do it again.
We don't want them to be extravagant; but they always come up to the castle in velveteen dresses, with white caps, and white collars round their necks; and they look very nice.
"I wish I could give you all a blouse apiece," she said to the other girls of the society, "but I am afraid that is not within my means.
You will understand all too soon.--Kathleen, it is time for us to be going." "I am not going," said Kathleen, "so there!" "Kathleen, you are." "No." "Come, Kathleen; come." "You needn't fuss about me; I am not coming." "Kathleen, dear, I think you ought to go.
Well girls, we'll have to run a certain risk.
I shall probably be a teacher in this very school, and get my couple of hundred a year.
By-and-by the sermon came to an end, the voluntary rolled forth from the organ, and the crowd of worshippers poured out.
It is wrong for the girls of the Great Shirley School to absent themselves without due reason." "Well, I have a headache.
I was once in Ireland.
I want to speak to you." Susy ran up to her in excitement.
Perhaps she will do something to raise herself into our set; but as it is, she must go with Kate Rourke and Hannah Johnson and Clara Sawyer, and all the rest of the foundationers." "Well, we have seen her now," said Mary, "so I suppose we needn't stand talking about her any longer.
I always think that such a sweet emblem, don't you, Miss Mackenzie?" But Miss Mackenzie, with a sniff, took up the little talisman and turned it from right to left.
She had a vivacious, merry smile, the keenest, most brilliant black eyes in the world, and a certain grace and dignity about her which seemed to contrast with her rapid utterances and intensely genial manner.
"They have been very good to her; but that Irish girl whom I told you about, she started a society--no special harm in itself--at least it didn't seem harm to the girl I have been telling you about, and she joined it.
"I know nothing about you, Miss Craven, but you don't understand what a person of consequence my niece is considered in Ireland." "That may be," replied Ruth; "but at school Kathleen, sweet and dear as she is, has to obey the rules just like any other girl.--Please, Kathleen, do be persuaded and come back with me.--Indeed, Miss O'Flynn, if you will only believe me, it is considered a very grave offence to miss morning school or to be late when nine o'clock strikes; and Kathleen can't be at school in time unless she returns home now." "I'm not going, so there!" said Kathleen.
The Poor Tired One 72 VII.
Hopkins's lamentations, and desired her to send Tom to her to inspect him, and had finally handed over the money, which was to be paid back by monthly installments within the space of three years.
"You have chosen such a funny place.
His wife was an Irishwoman from a neighboring county, and had some of the most careless attributes of her race.
There were also dozens of handkerchiefs, dozens of pairs of stockings, and some sweet little slippers all embroidered and fit for the most bewitching feet in the world.
You have to think of Kathleen as well as the school, and she's gone to a fearful lot of expense.
"Pink is more Alice's color.
I want to find Ruth Craven.
"Well, little woman," said the old man, "and you are off to school?
She knew because she lived with the class who discussed such things very openly.
But if it were known that she does lead other girls astray, she would be had up before the governors, and then she would not find herself in a very pleasant position." Ruth did not say anything.
I want to speak to them both.
I will tell mother that I am due at an important meeting, and she is sure not to question me; mother is always very kind, and gives me as much liberty as she can." Susy made a great struggle to keep her mind centered on her books, but with all her efforts her thoughts would wander.
Say you went to a jumble sale and bought it; you paid one-and-twopence-halfpenny for it.
I am sure no one could look sweeter than I do in my pale-blue blouse.
"If it weren't for the rheumatics," she said, "I wouldn't make so bold as to sit before you, miss." "But why shouldn't you?
What did you do to her?" "Well," said Kathleen, "I rather like old ladies, and she struck me as something picturesque." "She's a horrid old thing, and not a bit picturesque.
So the whole thing was settled; mother has been corresponding with Mrs.
"This is what I promised," she said; "and there is a note inside.
She slipped her hand inside her friend's, and they went into the parlor.
I mean to be terribly naughty all the afternoon.
And what is the matter with you?
She spoke quietly, turning her eyes away from the attractive little face and handsome figure.
Her lessons, too, were by no means distasteful.
She also felt excited and pleased and completely carried out of herself.
"But this little bit of fun need never be told to any one." Kathleen had let herself out of the house by the strong rope of ivy; she meant to return to her bedroom the same way.
I know what I'll do: I'll shut up the shop at half-past eight, leave a little note for mother, and then go to the quarry as fast as I can.
Will you promise me something, Cassie?" "You look so imploring that I'd like to promise you anything; but what is it?" "Do take her part when the time comes.
He took me to a grand stall, and we rubbed up against the nobility, I can tell you." It suddenly occurred to Kathleen that Kate Rourke was rather a vulgar girl.
Both were extremely pretty, Kathleen almost startlingly so.
But what's the matter, dear?" "Kathleen, I wish you wouldn't wear that really good dress going to school." "Is it my old lavender, and my old satin blouse?" said Kathleen, looking down at herself with a momentary glance.
I'm not certain that I take to her at all.
"The time is passing, and we must get to the bottom of Susy Hopkins's remarkable address.--What's up, Susy?
What have you got for the old lady's tea, mother?" "Well, now, look here.
Of course, we can't tell you to a certainty whether the house is still to be had, but I didn't hear that it was let.
"I see you are not like others.
Have you not heard what a condition the school is in?" "I have, of course, heard about the Wild Irish Girls," said Cassandra, lowering her voice.
I believe there are a great many girls willing to join.
That's the way of girls.
It is an Irish diamond set in silver--real silver.
She is no more tired than--than other women are." "If that is the case," said Kathleen, "I heartily hope that I shall not live to be a woman.
Oh, you have made a stain!
Come along in--do; you must be ravenous." The boys stared at her.
Ruth brought him over the pack of books somewhat unwillingly.
In pleasing me you will please the governors of the school, and doubtless be able to help yourself and your mother, a most worthy lady, in the long run." "I am very much obliged to you," said Alice.
"I never saw any one quite so lovely before as the queen," said Mary Rand.
Give Alice her room; one-half of it is hers, and she wants to dress to go out." "Let her take it all," sobbed Kathleen.
I don't suppose any other girl in the whole school bears such a high character.
"I really and truly, Kathleen, do want to help you.
Do let me examine the till." "Are you quite positive that no one came into the shop?" "Nobody, mother." "You did not leave the shop even for a moment?" "Yes; I went to sit in the parlor." "Oh, Susy?
Are you awfully old?" "You would think me so," replied Mrs.
The Blouse and the Robbery 126 XII.
Round her neck she wore innumerable beads of every possible color, and twisted through her lovely hair were some more beads, which shone as the light fell on them.
She was indifferent now as to what she wore.
My grandparents cannot make me anything but what I am." Mrs.
It is a bag for your knitting.
There she saw a silent, grave-looking girl, very quietly dressed, standing waiting for her.
She had a beautiful melodious voice, which had, of course, not yet come to maturity.
Isn't it worth anything to see that blessed trunk?
We are going to tea to-night to Mrs.
A moment later Ruth appeared, holding a brightly trimmed lamp in her hand; she laid it on a little centre-table, drew down the blinds, pulled the red curtains across the windows, poked up the fire, and then proceeded to lay the cloth for supper.
Craven was in her Sunday best, and looked a very beautiful and almost aristocratic old lady.
From there they could look down on dazzling scenes, and Kathleen, who had never been to a theater in the whole course of her life, was delighted.
Ruth, too, of all the girls--Ruth who was absolutely goodness itself.
You ought to be more respectful." "Arrah, then, darling, I can't; 'tain't in me.
"I have overheard you," said Miss Weldon calmly.
Tennant with a great basket of stockings before her.
I am going to supper to-night with Cassandra Weldon." "Then you don't get in," whispered Kathleen to herself.
The fact was, they did not begin to appear until soon after eight on Wednesday evenings.
"Never frightened of anybody in the whole course of my life.
As Susy Hopkins was running home helter-skelter--for she wanted to get her lessons done in order to be fully in time for the meeting that evening--she met Ruth Craven.
Kathleen flung off her hat, and the light from the lamps lit up her brilliant hair.
She demanded two plates of soup, and when she had finished the second she looked at Mrs.
"Shall we go in at once and set to work?" she said.
Tennant ran upstairs in some alarm.
"But I don't see the chaperone," he remarked.
She now removed her mittens, put a napkin on her lap, and bent forward with a look of appetite to regard the different dishes which Ellen, the tiny twelve-year-old servant, brought in.
It has pleased the Almighty, Susan, to put you in a low walk of life, and in that walk you ought to remain, and dress according--yes, dress according.
And she gave me this.
She wondered why her mother did not come back.
You are living at the Tennants', are you not?
There were evident signs of a stampede through the window, for it stood wide open, and there were marks of not too clean boots on the drugget, and a torn piece of ivy just without.
But, Susy, how funnily you were dressed to-day, now that I come to think of it!
I wish you could have seen me and Rory together at home.
You won't hate me forever, will you?" Alice growled something in reply.
She will make the most tremendous difference in our lives.
"You are Alice Tennant?" "Yes, madam." "You are in the upper fifth?" "Yes," said Alice again.
At four o'clock that afternoon the governors of the Great Shirley School met in the room set aside for the purpose.
Was she not Kathleen O'Hara, the only daughter of the House of O'Hara, the heiress of her beloved father's old castle?
Both boy and girl were in high spirits.
Tom Hopkins and His Way with Aunt Church 136 XIII.
Presently Alice ran down the passage.
"Of course I will face the governors.
Stay, I will tempt her.--Kathleen!" "Yes, darling." "Wouldn't you like to come with me to Cassandra Weldon's?
"You are always in such a fidget to learn, Ruth.
I mean to help you.
Clara Sawyer, a fair-haired little girl about fourteen, with a heavy fringe right down to her eyebrows, completed the trio.
"My mother was a housekeeper in a nobleman's family," she said, "and she was given that cloth and two or three more like it.
We know what it means, of course." "You look very mysterious," said Kathleen.
I ain't, I can tell you; I am quite a poor body.
Girls--Wild Irish Girls, you who belong to my society--I as your queen desire you to come forward.
come to the glass." Kathleen had opened a cardboard box, and out of it she took a black velvet bonnet with nodding plumes and a little pink strip of velvet fastened under the brim.
Oh, I know you are _dead_ tired.
She put on crimson silk stockings, and tucked into her bag a pair of crimson satin shoes.
But never mind; I won't tell him.
Kathleen returned quite safely to Myrtle Lodge.
Kathleen was nowhere to be seen.
"Benny," she said then in a most seductive whisper.
But I could do a kindness to you and your mother if--if certain things were to come to pass.
"Well, you know, as I was running here--Oh, girls, I had such a lark!
"I tell you what, Ruth," he said; "I must think over it.
The leaves are not quite so brown as I should like.
She was always a rare one to see a good balance at the end of the week.
You don't suppose I'd begin a thing and then drop it?" "No; that wouldn't be at all like you, you young rebel.".
And we will put out the best tea-things, and a clean cloth; and it will rest the poor tired one so tremendously when she comes in and sees a good meal on the table." Both cook and Maria were quite excited.
the lights--aren't they just lovely?
I kept staring at her hat all the time.
Kathleen felt a curious tremor run through her, but she did not move a muscle; only when Ruth appeared at the edge of the platform, it was with the greatest effort she could keep herself from jumping up, taking her hand, and mounting the platform by her side.
It was so kind of you to come to see us this afternoon.
At this moment Kathleen O'Hara was seen passing through the playground in a sort of triumphal progress.
There came a day in early autumn, shortly after the girls had reassembled after their summer vacation, when they streamed out of the building in groups of twenties and thirties and forties.
It was sweet of him to give up his egg to me last night." Having seen that the table was in perfect order, and that the dinner was cooking as well as dinner could in the oven, Mrs.
Insurrection must be put down with a firm hand.
"Are you coming to school to-day?" asked Alice the next moment.
She first of all drew the bolt to secure herself against intrusion, and then stepping on tiptoe, she unlocked a drawer and took from it several ends of candle which she had collected from time to time.
"Now, to tell the truth, I can't bear that sister of yours--Susy, you call her--but I have a liking for you, Tom Hopkins.
As soon as Susy returned from her place of worship she helped her mother to get the little parlor ready.
"Now, such a girl oughtn't to be on the foundation at all.
She was soon smiling and flushing.
I feel in your dull old England as though I were in prison.
She thrust the letter into her pocket and proceeded with her work.
Here Kate Rourke took the lead.
There were always shoals of visitors, mostly relatives.
And just as Susy looked up Kathleen looked up, and the latter burst into a loud laugh, and said: "I do declare there's a boy in there." The next instant she had burst into the bedroom and dragged Tom out.
"What are they all doing there?" she said.
"What a good thing," said Susy, "that I took the latchkey with me!
"Do you think you will, miss?
It seems scarcely fair that I should be the one to run her to earth." "The fairness or the unfairness of the question is not now to be discussed," said Miss Ravenscroft.
Weldon," said Ruth; "and I scarcely know how to thank you." "Come in, dear, and have some dinner.--Cassandra, I have just heard from Miss Renshaw, and she is coming this afternoon.--You can either stay, Ruth, when dinner is over, or come back again." "I will come back," said Ruth.
I suppose it will come to our all being expelled." "Oh, not a bit of it," said Kathleen.
We were twin souls before birth; now we have met again and we cannot part.
And I won't take it off." Just then there were voices, and Aunt Church called out: "Where are you, Mary Hopkins?
RUTH'S TROUBLES AND SUSY'S PREPARATIONS.
She was fond of her own companions, but she could not bear the foundation girls.
To tell the truth, Alice was not at all taken in by Kathleen's headache.
Will you say that you know that I got this blouse honestly?" "Oh, yes, child!
They're rattling at the door like anything, and there's a detestable boy now whistling 'Garry Owen' right into my heart.
You haven't forgotten the water-cress, have you?" "Here's a great bunch of it.
The next minute Kathleen caught firm hold of the arm of old ivy and let herself down deftly and quickly to the ground.
The fascination of the coming sport grew greater as obstacles appeared in the way of its realization.
She is the sort of girl that you'd take a fancy to when you're lonely and far from home.
"I will tell you everything that concerns myself," she said.
Oh, Garry Owen, Garry Owen!
Her father, Squire O'Hara, was, as landlords in Ireland go, very well off.
My dear girls, you have all been summoned to attend in this hall to-day in order to meet the governors of the school, Miss Mackenzie, Mrs.
Everything was arranged in a great hurry.
But never mind; it is but to look at you to see how beautiful and good you are." "And you are beautiful, too," said Kathleen.
We are all coming; not one of us will stay behind.
The only thing we could get out of her was that she had been a member of the society but was one no longer." "She left them because of me," said Cassandra.
"Mother is right," she thought.
She sat down to the table, helped herself to a piece of toast, and spread some butter on it.
I shall be so miserable with that dreadful Kathleen." "You know quite well, Alice, that that is the only really good bedroom in the house, and I can't afford to give it to one girl by herself.
"You go to our school, don't you?" she said.
Now, Ruth belonged to this rare class, and Susy, without quite understanding it, felt it.
Mary Hopkins, where did you get that damask?" Mrs.
The tears were still wet on her cheeks.
The other ladies fidgeted as they sat.
"Now then," she said, "how is it that all the others have funked it?" "There has been so much muttering and whispering and suspecting going on during the whole livelong day that they were positively afraid," said Susy.
Are you Irish?" said the girl.
She was accustomed to getting up almost at cock-crow at Carrigrohane, and when Alice opened her eyes, it was to see an empty bed and an empty room.
"'I have only got one life,' he said, 'and I'd like to give it if necessary.'" "To tell the truth, Ruth, I could not understand him." "But I can," said Ruth.
Hopkins, and I want to see Susy.
"I called you all to-night to tell you that we are suspected, and we are called insurrectionists; but let them call us what they like." "Please," here put in the timid voice of Janey Ford, "are we likely to be put in prison?
"He was the cleverest man I ever came across.
Fussing over fine living, I suppose.
"I have not specially noticed you before," she continued, "but after we have each had a good stare we will know what sort of girl you are." For reply Kathleen herself lifted the lantern and flung the full light upon her radiant and lovely face and figure.
Tennant's bedroom looked also into the garden, and was really parallel with the window by which Kathleen meant to escape.
"Was she very, very cross?" "Who do you mean?" asked Kathleen, instantly on the defensive.
She was just arriving at the station when she saw Ruth Craven coming to meet her.
She wished to hear from her father; she wanted to have money in hand.
"Now, Cassie," she said, "what is it?" "Oh, can't you guess for yourself, Flo?
I have got news for you, and very good news, too.
The color rushed into Ruth's cheeks.
"I don't see how a girl is to be expected to betray her companions." "That is the position, grandfather.
Some of the visitors left rather important messages, but Kathleen did not remember them for more than a moment after they were delivered.
Nobody wants to be hard on you; nobody wants to be hard on your founder, although she must no longer take her place as a member of this school; but if you don't confess, very stringent and terrible methods will have to be resorted to." Miss Ravenscroft here resumed her seat.
This money would not have gone without hands.
I don't think particularly well of you, Kathleen; your ways are not my ways, nor your ideas mine; but I don't think, bad as you are, that you would tell a lie.
I always did say what I thought.
But, all the same, I'm surprised to see you here to-night." "But why so?" asked Ruth.
She had no hat on, and no jacket.
The diamond had been polished, and flashed brightly; the silver setting was also as good as was to be found.
It will be in extremely bad taste.
It is a sort of melodrama; there's a deal of killing in it, and the heroine has to do some desperate deeds." "Oh, dear!" said Susy, with a sigh; "I don't feel, somehow, as if I much cared where we went.
But unfortunately, in an evil moment he had been induced to put his hand to a bill for a friend.
Tennant did her good, and she went upstairs to dress for supper in a happier frame of mind.
"All right, my boy; I expect I am," said Kathleen; and then she added, springing to her feet, "I have eaten enough, and for what we have received--Good-bye, Mrs.
Tennant's house, and Susy went slowly back to the High Street and the little stationer's shop.
Round her neck was a collar of old Mechlin lace; she wore cuffs of the same with ruffles at the wrist.
END OF THE GREAT REBELLION.
It would take her a quarter of an hour, running most of the way, to reach the old quarry, and she must have three or four minutes to dress.
Miss Kathleen O'Hara has taken up with her as well as with me and other foundation girls, and instead of having a miserable, dull, down-trodden life, we are extremely likely to have the best life of any girls in the school.
The following day dawned bright and clear, with a suspicion of frost in the air.
James the Less was by no means remarkable for beauty of architecture or adornment of any sort; nevertheless the vicar was a man of great eloquence and earnestness, and in the evenings it was the custom for the little church to be packed.
Now that's about all.--Pull away, Tom, my boy.
"He is different from the others.
"Which is the Hôtel Métropole?" "Oh, miss, it is quite close.
Tennant, I am afraid you must, for the next train leaves Charing Cross for Merrifield at ten minutes past nine." Mrs.
I am going to take you foundation girls up.
Now then, I'm off." Kathleen ran up to her room, and again she locked the door.
I wish I had let you in.--She must go, David, the poor dear.
I must say it is horrid to be poor.
She'd look so sweet in this pink blouse when she went to tea at her chosen friends.
She lay back in her chair and whistled "Garry Owen" in a most insolent manner.
Susy and Tom watched her as she ate the egg, and thought how delicious it must taste, but were glad she had it.
They stopped at the cottage, and a loud knock at the door was next heard.
If you ever did, I am that girl." "Oh, my!" said Susy Hopkins.
Hopkins awaited her with a tray full of good things.
Who can have come into the shop?
Ruth was in a high class for her age, and was already absorbed in her work.
What do you mean?" "They are going to do their utmost to get her to tell; and if she does tell they will call out our names and expel us, that's all.
Why, Aunt Katie is such a darling she'll take us out if we want things and buy them on the spot.
The Society Meets at Mrs.
And first and foremost, how do you like school?" "Not at all, aunty; and I'm not learning anything." "My dear, that is sad hearing; and your poor father pining his heart out for the want of you." "I never wished to go to school," said Kathleen.
And gloves--here's a pair, and they're neatly mended.
"Four might stand against the wall there, and four there, and so on, but that wouldn't go far when there are forty.
"Do you know what they are doing?" "What?" "They are bringing pressure to bear upon Ruth Craven.
It's lost I'd be in a place of this sort.
A flash of real anger shot through them.
"So we are without her, girls," continued Kathleen.
"I'd almost like her not to stay with us," thought Susy; "for then perhaps Kathleen would make me her Prime Minister.
Who's coming, and where are they coming when they do come?" "They're coming here, Aunt Church, a lot of them--girls like me--big girls and little girls, old girls and young girls, bad girls and good girls; girls who'll laugh at you, and girls who'll respect you; some dressed badly, and some dressed fine.
It did not occur to her to examine its contents, or to suppose for a single moment that any one had taken money out of it.
we can't look into the future.
I can play on the piano to imitate any birds that ever sung at home, and father loves that.
They assembled in the committee-room, and I was present.
I like you, and wish that I lived with you, and that you'd have Ruth Craven instead of your own daughter in the house.
Of course I am sorry for her, and I quite understand that she doesn't want to disappoint her aunt, but she ought to come with me; she ought, mother.
Only I made no fortune by grocery--barely enough to put my boy into the army and to educate him for it, and enough to keep us with a pittance now that we are old.
"An hour and a quarter before the meeting of the Wild Irish Girls," she said to herself.
And I will--Whisper, Susy!" Susy somewhat unwillingly bent forward.
Presently they reached the opening that led into the quarry.
Kathleen Has a Good Time in London 294 XXVI.
She told me to-day she wouldn't." "She'll be a brick if she doesn't," said Kate Rourke.
"You leave the boy alone," was Mrs.
Now you know, and there's no use worriting, for what can't be cured must be endured.
"And as you sat in the parlor you could see the shop.
The lady started back, and could not help contrasting Kathleen's face with those of the other girls.
Hopkins, assisted by Susy, had removed the cloth, and the little maid had swept up the hearth, Mrs.
May I put the account-book aside?" "You may, darling; you may.
Her name is Cassandra Weldon." "Of course I know Cassandra Weldon," said the head-mistress.
"You must never part with them, mother," she said--until Tom is married.
"Dear me, Miss Kathleen!" she said; "if only Miss Alice was as good-natured as you, why, the house would go on wheels." "I often helped the servants at home," said Kathleen.
Maria presently came back and the tea-table was laid.
"I presume that you all like her?" Again the hands went up, and Kathleen's was raised the highest of all.
However attached we may be to a person, we don't enter a strange house and snatch that person out of it.
"I hope not," said Miss Mackenzie; "but I as chairwoman am obliged to question her.--Ruth Craven, is it true that you became a member of a silly schoolgirl society called the Wild Irish Girls, and that you wore a badge like this?" Ruth nodded.
"No fear now that I shall not have plenty of excitement in the coming by-and-by.
"I am a Wild Irish Girl." "That you ain't.
Wrong from your lips will appear right, and right will appear wrong.
Miss Mackenzie was between sixty and seventy years of age; she always dressed in the severest and most old-fashioned manner, and wore her iron-gray hair in ringlets on each side of her head.
My grandparents can scarcely afford the expense of keeping me in this school.
Don't you think we might make her wear it?" "I am sorry, Kathleen, but you are not getting on very well with Alice.
Mother saw me when I was half-way across, and she gave a shriek.
"I want you very badly indeed just now." "Then, my sweet child, come straight away with me to Dublin; for as to leaving Peggy in her hour of extremity, I wouldn't do it even for you, Kathleen, and that's saying a good deal." "But how can I come?
"And I do hope, also, that you won't make yourself a merry-andrew or a figure of fun at the Weldons' to-night.
I can tell your special friend Kathleen, who will no longer be queen of the Wild Irish Girls, to-morrow morning, that I have forced this confession out of you.
Kathleen did the necessary introducing, and the two ladies moved a little apart to talk together.
These ladies have come to meet you, because they wish thoroughly to investigate a most disgraceful matter which has lately been going on in the school." Miss Ravenscroft paused and looked round her.
"A sweet child, I call her," said Mrs.
That's the right figure, isn't it, for the best things at a jumble sale?
Now you will see how smart I can be.
People would think I had a gold locket.
Anyhow, I will go round to the police-station and lodge the information." Accordingly, while Susy was again trying on her lovely pale-blue cashmere blouse behind locked doors upstairs, Tom and his mother were plotting how best to cover the loss of the nineteen-and-sixpence.
I like this blouse, and I'll wear it whenever I wish." "Oh, hoity-toity!" said the old lady; "impudent as well as everything else.
And one does it sometimes in life.
Susy, I told you the kettle would boil before we were ready for tea.
Now, Kathleen tried to bear with Mrs.
What sort of trouble can she get into?" "There are whispers about her that I don't quite understand.
It was an old black sailor-hat, which had been burnt to a dull brown.
It wouldn't be right to you, nor right to Cassandra." "Well, I think you are very mean; I think I hate you." Kathleen turned aside.
They are all coming, up to forty of them in number, and Miss Kathleen O'Hara is the queen amongst them.
She said next time I came along she'd show me things in her microscope.
"Oh, dear!" cried Alice, "there are those dreadful boys again.
They are very difficult, you know, and you promised that when I went to the Great Shirley School you'd never interfere with my lesson hours." "I did say so, and of course I don't mean to interfere; but this is a special case." "Can't Tommy go and stand in the shop?
What fun I shall have!
"I don't hold with it, but then it's the way of the missis." "I have got some money in my pocket," said Kathleen.
"We must let her have her own way.
Had he been able to assure Mrs.
"Do come, Kathleen," she said.
"If that is the money you have in your hand," she said, noticing that the child held a small parcel, "you may give it to me, and then go over there and get me that black cash-box.
Susan, my dear child, where did you get that beautiful pale-blue blouse?" "I didn't get it through theft, mother, if that's what you are thinking of.
Would that get her a nice tea?" "A nice tea!" cried Maria.
We must put this matter down with a strong hand.
Kathleen gave her a quick glance.
"They won't like it." "What do I care whether they like it or not?" said Kathleen.
Oh, what didn't we do?
"I didn't know I had such an enthusiastic following.
"It means such drudgery, and I don't believe I'd play a bit better if I did." "That is certainly not the case, Kathleen," said Miss Spicer.
Cassandra Weldon offers me an advantage which I dare not throw away.
She bent over her book, and did not glance again at Kathleen.
Susy gave a sharp whistle; the girls started to their feet.
She said in a deferential tone: "I have come to you, from Kathleen O'Hara.
Meanwhile Ruth went on with her lessons.
Altogether the breakfast was a noisy one.
She put on a hat trimmed with flowers and feathers, and a sash of many colors round her waist.
But I must be gay; it isn't fair to Aunt Katie to be anything else." She made a wild and scarcely judicious selection.
She left the room and went up to what she called her half of the bedroom on the next floor.
Tennant, "you are too good." Kathleen laughed.
"Why, we'd get so weak that mother couldn't earn the money she sends you every month." "And you couldn't do your lessons and be the fine big boy that I am proud of," said Mrs.
You mustn't say no; I will give you some if you are nice.
I should take it very kindly if you would.
It doesn't seem right that a girl of that sort should belong to this school, and then take airs." "But the question is," said Cassandra suddenly, "does she take airs?" The girls all stopped talking, and gazed up at Cassandra with astonishment in their faces.
How can you stand music then?
"I am sure she will get us into trouble.
She is sitting in the drawing-room.
I am going to hunt round for her immediately after dinner.
"I assure you the paying girls think no end of themselves.
"It wants to crush us," continued Kathleen.
You must go, and you must tell her." "Of course I'll go, mother," answered the boy.
The badges were small and exceedingly neat, and there were about sixty of them in all.
She had a low forehead, rather nice curly hair, and a high color in her cheeks.
"Is it that that every one is thinking about?" said Kathleen.
No remarks, however, were made.
But the teacher on this occasion did not complain of Susy; there were so many other things to be considered that she thought she would let the matter pass.
It opens up scholarships--many scholarships--of great value for those special girls who call themselves foundationers.
Perhaps it is Sunday morning and you are off to church." "No, grandfather; it is Saturday morning--quite a different thing." "Well, my love, I am as pleased as Punch about that school.
"You will forgive me, dear," she said; "I am a mother and have daughters of my own.
Poor women came in for penn'orths of paper.
Why, nothing holds her in bounds; there's nothing she stops at.
Kathleen's dark-blue eyes grew round with laughter.
When I was young I knew a little girl, and you remind me of her.
It is only half-past eight." "I have business, darling--a friend to meet.
Perhaps Aunt Church will be a little nicer to me now that you have taken her up.
Weldon's supper party was to begin at eight o'clock.
Kathleen was intensely affectionate, and would have done anything in the world to please Mrs.
Her neat satchel of school-books was slung on her arm.
She was thinking of her grandfather, and of what it would mean to him and the old grandmother when she came back on Saturday a disgraced girl, expelled from her high estate, her golden chance snatched from her.
"I wish there were others like you in the world." "No, I am not splendid," said Kathleen, her lovely dark eyes looking wistful.
I am sorry if you think me rude, but I can't help myself.
She clenched her hands so tightly that the nails went into the delicate flesh.
If you only knew the snubbing she gave me yesterday.
The old man's large clear blue eyes were fixed on the child.
I'll have more money than any of the other fellows.
"Now, Kate Rourke," cried Kathleen, "please take down the names of the girls who intend to become members of the Wild Irish Girls." The girls came forward one by one, and Kate took down their names; and it was quickly discovered that, out of the hundred foundationers who belonged to the Great Shirley School, sixty had joined Kathleen's society.
If their frolic was not discovered, all would be well; if it was, it would be ruin--ruin complete and absolute.
But just as the thought came to her, Miss Mackenzie, the woman most respected and most dreaded in the whole of Merrifield, rose slowly to her feet.
"I beg of you, therefore, Cassie, to see her and use your influence to induce her, not from quixotic motives, to ruin herself and injure the other girls of the school." "I will do what I can.
She never comes to bed before ten, so I shall be quite safe getting out of the house.
I am a very unhappy girl.
Alice can teach you; she can help you very much.
"I only hope Kathleen won't be in that style." "But do you know anything about her?
"Why should I be afraid?
"Maybe you might as well put the kettle on the fire; it takes a good long time to boil.
"And I wish, too, that you wouldn't always be late home.
Do you think I am utterly selfish, Mrs.
She has the power of attracting people, but she has also the power of making enemies.
She knocked at the door of the room which she had given up to the two girls.
I ain't at all a cruel woman.
We could have our meetings there--I know we could--and she'd never tell.
We are the twelve members of the Cabinet, and there are about twenty girls who are our sort of standing army.
The conference hastily ended, and on entering the school Susy pinned a piece of paper under Kathleen's desk, on which she wrote: "The old quarry; nine o'clock this evening.
Church looked on with a mingled feeling of approval and disapproval.
She kept thinking of her father.
"Yes, granddad; coming in a moment or two," Ruth replied.
It's splendacious she is entirely when she's dressed up in her best--velvet and feathers and laces and jewels.
Her father and I were sitting by the hearth, and the boy came and stood near us.
I shall probably have to return through the bedroom window, so I may as well explore and make all in readiness.
She was able to keep her own counsel, and this last daring scheme was locked tightly up in her heart.
Kathleen did not reply at all for a moment; then she said in a sleepy, smothered sort of voice which seemed to proceed from the bed: "I have a splitting headache; don't disturb me." "Very sorry," answered Alice, "but I really must come in." Kathleen made no answer.
"What are you saying, 'Well, I never!' for?" asked Kathleen.
Miss Ravenscroft has nothing whatever to do with me." "Oh, Kathleen!
How am I to bear it?" said Kathleen, and she clasped a white hand over that organ.
We could die for you," said one or two.
She is at the Hôtel Métropole.
He bent down now and whistled very softly, and in the most flute-like manner, "Garry Owen" through the keyhole.
It wants another quarter of an hour before our hot water is brought in.
There was a disconcerting pause, and then Kathleen said: "Hannah, doubtless you are right.
Ruth, having delivered her soul, looked down.
He took a seat at the table, and gazed with wonder, delight, and admiration at Kathleen.
It means that in the presence of the whole school you are pronounced unworthy, that you leave the school publicly, being desired to do so by your teacher.
And now, may I begin to look through my lessons for to-morrow?" The old man arranged the lamp where its light would be most comfortable for the keen young eyes, and Ruth sat down to the table, got out her books, and worked for an hour or two.
I want you girls to join me in loving Ireland." "But we can't hate England," said Kate Rourke; "that is quite impossible.
If she had a good balance and all things nicely squared up, we'd have a nice little joint for Sunday; and she'd put on her little bonnet and best mantle, and we'd go for a walk in the country arm-in-arm, just like the Darby and Joan we were, Ruthie, and which we are.
"Well," she said, "here we are, and we call ourselves the Wild Irish Girls.
Whatever you do, Kathleen, you must not encourage them in their larks." "But why shouldn't I?
We have a ghost at Carrigrohane.
Occasionally they looked behind them; sometimes they started at an ordinary shadow, thinking that a policeman at least would be waiting for them.
"Your name?" said Miss Mackenzie.
The person who can doubtless tell me most is Kathleen O'Hara.
"Will no girl present be brave enough to save the school?" Still there was silence.
That horrid, prim Cassandra chose to correct me when I came into school, and she has taken my darling away--the only one I love in the whole of England.
Tennant--who, to tell the truth, found her considerably in the way--Kathleen, accompanied by Alice, started for school.
Oh, what a heavenly, delicious tea!
"Mother," she said, "I am obliged to be out the whole afternoon.
Maybe there will be something here to fit you, Alice.
Her face was all over wrinkles.
"I have no time to think about it," she said to herself.
"Now we are complete," she said.
And what do you think?
You, of course, must please yourself." "My dear child, leave it to me," said Miss O'Flynn.
I do not require you to betray your companions; I do not even ask their names.
"Listen to me, all you girls, for I haven't too long in which to tell you; that horrid bell will ring us back to lessons and dullness in less than no time.
I'd like to do it for you, but I don't suppose I shall have time.
"Go to bed, dear," called out her parent.
I pity that poor girl.
The tea would have to be drunk without milk, and with only a modicum of brown sugar, for Mrs.
School is always over at four.
It did not occur to him for one moment that the little girl was talking about herself.
"But I suppose you have done everything for the best, Tom, and I must go around to the butcher's for a little addition to the dinner." Mrs.
Miss Renshaw would just as soon coach two girls as one, and mother has arranged it.
"I do wish you wouldn't do servant's work," she said.
"No, my boy, that I won't.
Her sentence will be proclaimed in the presence of all the school, and she will be watched walking out of the schoolroom and out of the big gates, which will close behind her for ever, and all her chance goes--all her golden prospects.
That's right, old woman." "Very well, old man," she replied, and she pushed the table towards him, put the account-books thereon, and left the room.
The Irish are always so terribly poor." "She is not poor at all.
Until then we hope that Ruth Craven will carefully consider her conduct, and be prepared to answer the very vital questions which will be put to her.--You can go, Ruth." Ruth left the room.
"You are welcome to my brothers if you don't toss all your things about in my room," cried Alice.
She suddenly dropped a curtsy.
I cannot give up Cassandra, nor Alice, nor--nor other girls." "Nonsense, Ruth!
It is really too trying." "I will go up and see if I can persuade her," said Mrs.
It was when the meal had come to an end that Kathleen said calmly: "Three or four, or perhaps five, ladies called while Maria was out." "Who were they, dear?" "I don't know.
"The money that she owes me?" "Yes, the money she owes you.
A minute or two later Alice left the house.
Maybe this very thing can be turned to good for us; there's no saying.
Nothing grew there; the ground was innocent of grass, and much worn by the tramping of young feet.
She herself fetched a plate and the salt-cellar from the dresser, and putting these on the table, helped herself to a potato from the pot.
But Ruth did not sit; she only put one pretty little hand on the back of a chair as though to steady herself.
Craven was seated by the fire.
Ross, the Misses Scott, and Miss Jane Smyth.
"We are foundationers, and we ought to be thankful." "The education is splendid; we ought not to forget that," said Ruth Craven.
"It's the kind we always have at Myrtle Lodge," replied cook.
His forehead was broad and slightly bulgy; his carroty hair was cut short to his head.
He was a good landlord, firm but also kind and indulgent.
Is your grandmother ill?" "No; she's quite well." "And your grandfather?" "They are both quite well.
"I never did hold with the severe hardening process." "Certainly in the case of Kathleen it would do no good," said Miss Ravenscroft.
Church's debtors to eat good roast beef and good boiled pork and good apple-pudding, but it was another thing for Mrs.
Her first impulse was to take no notice of Susy's remarks--little Susy Hopkins, the daughter of a small stationer in the town, a girl who had scarcely scraped through in her examination.
"I am shaking and trembling now like anything.
"I guessed, of course, that you must be alluding to me," said Kathleen.
Maria went out, and Kathleen stood in the hall.
On Christmas Day they come to the castle and have dinner as well as tea.
"Let us meet her, we seven by ourselves," was Kate's final suggestion.
She never learned their names; perhaps she did not want to.
Her cheeks were flaming with color, and her very dark-blue eyes looked as black as night.
I will go to them at once.
She traced Kathleen's conduct from the first day of her arrival to the present hour.
Has the dream about the shop and the wrong accounts passed out of your head?" "Why, yes, darling; of course it was only a dream." "Then I'd like to ask you something." "Ask away, my little Ruth.
"You see, I am accustomed to him.
Presently she heard the clock outside strike seven.
You will be had up before them.
I met her last Sunday.
We are at present in a very unpleasant position in the school.
I am determined to take up Latin; I want to get to the heart of things." "Quite right--quite right, too.
Alice's ways are not my ways, and if I copied her it's kilt I'd be entirely.
I am going to-night, and I am going all the more surely because you wired to me not to go, and because they are daring to bully dear little Ruth Craven.
Most girls have, haven't they?
I am sometimes inclined to believe that it comes afore pride; but we needn't dispute that delicate point at present.
But I have nothing to leave you, sweetest.
See if I don't." CHAPTER XX.
See if I don't do something for you.
"In short," said Miss Mackenzie very quietly, "you have decided, Ruth Craven--you, an ignorant, silly little girl--to defy the governors of this school.
There never was a more splendid girl in all the world, but she requires to be known.
But what about the gloveless little hands and the untidy neck and throat?
Do you know, in our country we have old ladies something like you.
"Why, Tom," said his mother, looking at him with admiration, "you are a smart boy.
Alice Tennant, however, sometimes preferred the quiet school to the noisy life she lived with her brothers at home.
And some of the English people are very nice entirely," said Miss O'Flynn, making this last statement in what she considered a widely condescending manner.
David came up to her at once; he was the favorite, and people said he had a way with him.
At a quarter to nine she complained of fatigue, bade Mrs.
And I have asked Miss Kathleen O'Hara to come in to-morrow, and she has promised to." "What?" said Tom.
It was founded some hundred years ago, by those who thought much and in advance of their time.
"Mother must be in soon.
Alice had long ceased to torment Kathleen about her own side of the room.
There was no answer for a minute; then Tom appeared, looking somewhat rakish and disheveled.
Telegrams were by no means common things at the Tennants' house.
There won't be many customers at this hour." "Oh, mother, I did really want to work hard at my lessons.
and upset the pig?" said Mrs.
To be expelled meant to deprive them of their chance of being well educated and of earning a decent living by-and-by.
She went to their mutual room, and turned the key in the lock.
I saw a man going by not ten minutes ago, and he looked suspiciously at the house.
Susy suddenly put in her appearance.
I could never lift up my head again.
"I am ever so much obliged to you, miss." "Wisha, then, it is I who like to help you," said Kathleen, "for you look fair beat." She dashed past Alice, and appeared the next moment in the kitchen.
Hopkins went upstairs to put on a lace collar and a neat black silk apron.
When Ruth found herself alone she paused and looked behind her.
She was homesick in the most intense sense of the word.
I am awfully pleased about that sovereign; it will make me one of the greatest toffs in the school.
Michael--" The girl's face slightly changed.
"What a time you have been, child!" she said.
That will be quite convenient to you, Mary Hopkins, won't it?" "Susy," said poor Mrs.
"You are stabbing me--stabbing me.
One of the great ideas of the school was to encourage brave actions, unselfish deeds, nobility of mind.
Do come--do, Ruthie." "But I can't in this dress," said Ruth, who felt suddenly very much tempted.
You perhaps know to what I allude." "I could not be in the school without having heard rumors of a sort of insurrection which seems to be spreading a good deal," said Cassandra.
"I live there," said Kathleen--"that is, I do when I am at home.
You will enjoy that--won't you, Thomas?" "See if I don't, Aunt Church.
You have never been at school before, and of course you find it irksome." "Is it irksome?" cried Kathleen.
Church forgot her anger in the interest that the boy's visit gave her.
Miss Mackenzie, as though she had not heard the voice of her sister governor, proceeded: "What is the name of the founder of the society?" "I am not prepared to say," replied Ruth.
And I have done it, Tom--I have done it.
Don't hate me too much; I can't help the way I am made.
Detestable!" "I never took to that sort," said Miss O'Flynn.
She entered a week ago.
And I can love, love, love!
Church's direction, and then disappeared.
I promised granny." "But listen before you decide.
She laid it down with emphasis.
The school was situated in the suburbs of the popular town of Merrifield, and was known as the Great Shirley School.
"My grandfather and grandmother will be sitting up for me." "Oh, nonsense, child!" said Miss O'Flynn.
But if the balance didn't come out on the right side she'd stay at home.
It's a sort of cross between a coral and a rose--oh, so exquisite!
It is singularly fine for a little girl like you.
Had she not lived all her earlier days as housekeeper to a widowed nobleman?
But I like you, honey.
Hopkins had time to utter a word with regard to this preposterous and appalling suggestion of Aunt Church's, there came a loud knock on the little street-door, and, listening in the parlor, the people within could distinctly hear the rustle of silk petticoats.
"Will you have the goodness to stand just here, Miss Craven?" Ruth went to the place indicated.
It is a badge, and means a great deal," she said to herself, and she closed her hand over it as she lay in bed.
"I thought when you sent Susy to me with your message that I might as well come here this morning; but I haven't changed my mind--not a bit of it." Kathleen's eyes, always extraordinarily dark for blue eyes, now grew almost black.
I thought I'd say so, for I mean to do it." "Oh, Kathleen!" said Alice in a distressed voice, "you really mustn't.
You know what your father was.
You are good--you are wonderfully good." "Where's the quarry?" asked Kathleen.
By the express order of the founder, the governors were women; and very admirably did they fulfil their trust.
You will--you must--change your mind.
"You will--you will, dear Mrs.
She for a short time belonged to the rebels, as I must call the Wild Irish Girls, but she saw the folly of her conduct and left them.
I don't want the thing to be riotous, nor to do harm in any way.
She had finished dressing by now, and she went out of the room.
Now then, child, don't you worry.
Kathleen began to write, but she suddenly changed her mind.
"'Wild Irish Girls,'" she said aloud.
"You look quite happy, my dear." "And so I am.
"Oh, Kathleen, I can't tell how you puzzle me.
They left the theater very slowly, with all the lightsomeness and gladness of heart gone.
She is one of my most important friends.
I had several severe losses.
Oh, glory be to goodness!
Tell them that I am game for a real bit of fun, and that I will stand treat.
Whoever is there has nothing to do with us." Susy's state of panic amused both Miss O'Flynn and Kathleen, and Tom was the only one found brave enough to go to the door in answer to the knock.
Not a bit of it, Susan.
Mightn't I give the blouse to you first, and you could give it to her?
They know, however, that its influence is bad in the school, and they are determined to crush it out.
We must not go to the quarry to-morrow evening.
"And you know the best of the fun is, they are making no end of a fuss in the school.
She joined it for a bit, and she liked it--that is, on the whole--but afterwards a girl who had not joined the society and did not belong to the foundationers, one whom I am sorry to say the foundationers did not care for at all, offered a great kindness to this girl--a very special and tremendous kindness--and the girl in her own mind decided that she would be doing wrong not to accept it.
She was stepping along leisurely, looking up sometimes at the sky, and sometimes pausing as though she was thinking hard.
I must go and help granny now." "That's right; that's a good girl.
Susy rose and prepared supper, and at the crucial moment the new-laid egg was laid on Mrs.
There was evidently a moment's pause, and the whole school was in a waiting attitude when Kathleen made her appearance.
This is madness.--Mother, do speak to her." "What is it, dear?" said Mrs.
She had a jealous contempt of Ruth Craven, who, although a foundation girl, managed to look like a lady; but her envy was centered round Cassandra.
She went down a small lane, turned to her right, and found herself in a mean little street full of small shops.
She was in good time.
Naylor, I should be much obliged if you would allow Miss Ravenscroft to continue," said Miss Mackenzie.
I am sorry my dear husband is not as well as could be wished; but perhaps if you'd be good enough to sit down for a minute or two, he would wake up before you go." Kathleen entered, held out her hand, greeted Mrs.
Cassandra waited until she was out of hearing.
An eager exclamation was about to burst from her lips, but she restrained herself.
I wish you knew what a dull evening I have just been living through--taking care of a tiny, very dull little shop.
I suppose you have a certain sense of honor, and you don't want your father's money to be thrown away." "Bedad, then!
Finally the two found themselves standing, very forlorn and slightly frightened, on one of the big platforms at Charing Cross.
"All right," she said, "I will go; but I won't go yet.
As long as she lived she remembered those two faces, and the words of the lady, and the smile with which she said good-bye.
"Where can she be?" thought Alice.
Presently Alice returned to the breakfast-room, and Kathleen now noticed that her eyes were red, as though she had just been indulging in a bout of crying.
Before any one could reply to her, however, a servant entered and said something in a low tone to Miss O'Flynn.
I have got the most heavenly plan to suggest to you." Cassandra laid her hand on Ruth's shoulder.
She did not reproach Susy; that was not her way.
Then she said: "Very well." Cassandra opened the little gate which led into the tiny fruit and vegetable garden.
"Ruth, do have a potato with me," said Kathleen; "they are first-rate when you don't put a knife or fork near them." But Ruth had no inclination for potatoes eaten in the Irish way.
I must make the best of it to Miss Ravenscroft, only I am sure she will be very angry with Kathleen." Alice flew to the school.
She came to the door to greet Tom when he arrived, and called him in.
"I am going to do it just to defy them.
What do you mean to do?" "Indeed," said Kathleen, "I don't mean to be impertinent, and I don't want to tell a lie.
"Yes, miss," answered the girl, dropping a little curtsy when she saw Kathleen.
She escaped the treacherous second step, and entered her bedroom without waking Alice.
She would willingly have given all her father's wealth--and he was quite well-to-do for his class--- to have Cassandra's face, Cassandra's voice, Cassandra's figure.
"But my grandparents will be expecting me," said Ruth.
Good-bye to you, pet; I haven't a minute to lose--Tom--is that your name?--go out and tell the messenger that I will go back with him to Merrifield." "And what about my almshouse?" screamed out Mrs.
She consulted him about her fowls, and gave him a new-laid egg to slip into his pocket for his own supper.
Ruth and Kathleen went into the garden.
What a tiny place for her darling favorite to live in!
You know Miss Renshaw, don't you?" "Miss Maria Renshaw, the coach.
A girl of that sort--fascinating, handsome, dangerous--works havoc in a school." "Listen, Cassie," said Ruth suddenly.
Go for my sake," said Mrs.
Will you come home and have tea with me, Alice?
"I presume," said Miss Mackenzie after a pause of a full minute, "that your silence means refusal I have therefore to turn to a certain young girl in this school who was a member of the Wild Irish Girls' Society, and who has now left it.--Ruth Craven, have the goodness to step forward." Ruth had been seated in the fourth bench.
I expect we'd be expelled." "Then that proves it.
Church had folded her napkin and swept the crumbs from her bombazine dress, and Mrs.
What a worry that is!
The rest of the girls proceeded to their different classes, and Cassandra found herself in Miss Ravenscroft's presence.
Quick as thought she dashed into the kitchen.
Do you think I'd do anything to endanger my continuing at the school, after all the trouble and care and anxiety you had in getting me placed there?" "Really, child," said Mrs.
She could not belong to both--to one side of the school and to the other; she must take her stand with one or the other; so she decided for her own special benefit to take her stand with the paying girls." "On the whole, perhaps, she was right," said the old man.
She thought a good deal of herself, for her father was a rich man, and only took advantage of the Great Shirley education because it was incomparably the best in the place.
And I rather fancy Kathleen is the sort of girl whom no one will betray.
I was so looking forward to a nice little supper with Cassandra and the other girls!
Oh, Land of the Shamrock!
Why, you are quite as good as the others.
"Do sit down, mother," she said.
"An extraordinary child," said Miss Mackenzie.
"I never did see a more thoughtful young lady." "My dear child," said Mrs.
"Now look here; if you bring that charming young lady to see me, and give me notice a day or so before--Tom can run over and tell me--if you and Tom and Miss Kathleen O'Hara would come and have tea at my place, why, it's the freshest of the plumcakes we'd have, not the stalest.
The playground was very large, and was asphalted, and in consequence quite dry and pleasant to walk on.
She oughtn't to go into an almshouse if she is rich," said Susy.
It means--oh, it means all the difference in your whole life." "I know," said Ruth.
Don't be a goose; nip the thing in the bud immediately.--AUNT KATIE." "But indeed I won't," thought Kathleen.
I shall be very pleased if you will join Ruth and me in our walk.
"She is very impulsive, but she is------" "Oh, yes," said Cassandra, "she has a good heart, of course; but I foresee that she is up to all sorts of mischief.
That sort of very rich popular girl always makes mischief.
Tennant found a tiny piece of paper pinned in conventional fashion to the pin-cushion.
What have you got to say?" "You are mad with jealousy, and you know it," answered Susy.
I am not a bit a stingy sort of girl; you know that, Alice.
I should like to be kind to you, Miss O'Hara.
Her heart was full; she felt depressed.
But of course you won't be.
Hopkins, as she said afterwards, more than a little.
Please forgive me, but I am always very plain-spoken; I always tell the truth.
There was a restless sound in the room, and then a cross voice said: "Go away." David stopped whistling "Garry Owen," and proceeded to execute a most exquisite performance of "St.
Ah, what a crowd of girls!--colleens we call them in Ireland.
She had hoped that he and she would go away to the old loft together, and talk as they had done the night before.
Once or twice she stopped.
It was noble of Cassandra to offer it, and I--I accepted it, Miss Ravenscroft.
Kathleen's mother was educated in this school, and she made up her mind that her daughter should never go to any other.
She looked full at Ruth.
Of course, she's only going to give tea to Miss O'Hara and Miss O'Flynn--I haven't seen that lady--and yourself and Tom.
She is the great-aunt of one of the members of the society, Susy Hopkins, a nice little girl, a tradesman's daughter." "Oh, dear me, Kathleen!
Oh, why did they send me across the cold sea to a place of this sort--a detestable place?
She wore her little school-apron and she kept folding it between her fingers as she stood in the presence of her judges.
When I noticed that Kathleen O'Hara had a disturbing influence over the girls I caused further inquiries to be made, and I then made a discovery which distressed me very much.
"Now," said old granny when the meal had come to an end, "you stay and talk to your grandfather--he is all agog to hear what you have got to say--and I will wash up.
I must try it on now; I really must." Accordingly she slipped off her bodice, and substituted the pale-blue cashmere blouse for the ugly and threadbare garment she had removed.
I invited her to have tea with us to-morrow, and she is coming." "My word!" said Tom.
It doesn't sound at all a respectable sort of name." "I am one," said Susy, beginning to skip up and down.
"What can it mean?" she thought, and she turned and looked.
Isn't it a lark?" The little girl felt quite excited.
There is one girl who can furnish us will all we want to know, but she dreads, doubtless from conscientious motives, to betray her late companions.
That is the question," said Kathleen in her softest voice.
Of course, my only chance of getting to the station was to go by the long way.--Half-way there I came across your mother, Susy, and she tried to stop me, and said she must speak to me.
"Come here, child," she said.
They wandered to Kathleen and the Wild Irish Girls' Society; they wandered to her other schoolfellows; they wandered to the hardship of having to take care of the shop when she wished to be otherwise employed; and finally they settled themselves on Ruth Craven.
I like to see girls nicely dressed.
Alice had always been a little difficult; she was more than difficult at the present moment.
The face was undoubtedly sweet--sweet with a radiance which surprised and partly fascinated Miss Ravenscroft.
Hopkins could ill afford to lose so large a sum as nineteen-and-sixpence out of her small earnings.
"It's from Aunt Katie O'Flynn.
"But I think you will come.
Some day you will get old yourself, and you won't like people to hate you." "Well, that's a long way off; I needn't worry about it yet," cried Susy.
You think you have, but you haven't.
TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES: p.2 Typo fixed: changed OE to OF p.2 Typo fixed: changed upside-down V in VERY p.9 Added missing opening quote before THE BUTCHER p.15 Added missing opening quote before I HOPE TO p.27 Typo fixed: changed KATLHEEN to KATHLEEN p.29 Removed an extra closing quote after STICKY p.44 Typo fixed: changed SAN into SANS p.47 Typo fixed: changed CASSANDA to CASSANDRA p.57 Typo fixed: changed TOMORROW to TO-MORROW p.61 Typo fixed: changed AND to AN p.68 Typo fixed: changed RUTH RAVEN to RUTH CRAVEN p.76 Added missing closing quote after ON THE TABLE p.98 Typo fixed: changed TENNAN'T to TENNANT'S p.99 Typo fixed: changed HOMOR to HUMOR p.101 Typo fixed: changed EQUISITELY to EXQUISITELY p.113 Typo fixed: changed SCHOOL-FELLOWS to SCHOOLFELLOWS p.118 Typo fixed: changed WAN'T to WANT p.125 Added missing line: -ING ANY LONGER.
Oh, yes, they were having a glorious time; and it was quite right to do what you liked sometimes, and quite right to defy your elders.
I am sorry if I am rude, but it isn't in me.
She was asked certain questions, which she absolutely refused to answer.
I must consult with the other teachers.
Craven carried the supper things into the kitchen, and Ruth sat close to her grandfather.
No one came into the shop; certainly no one stole the money." "My dear child, seeing is believing.
She rose as she spoke.
The girls used to ask her to improvise.
You will see for yourself how right we are, and how wrong and silly and childish you are.--Miss Ravenscroft, a special meeting of the governors will take place in this room on Saturday morning.
I have to send this letter to my son in India, and I'd miss the mail if it wasn't posted to-night.
Ruth's hat, too, left much to be desired.
"It must have been a dream; she could not have guessed that I was going to the station.
Her opinion was asked by anxious mothers and fathers and guardians.
She says I am to bring some one." "No, I can't come," said Alice; "and for that matter no more can you.
"You make off now," she said.
It doesn't matter a bit about my being late for dinner at the Tennants'.
Are you a poor girl?
We are not so poor as all that.
Her mistress was a very amiable and clever woman of the name of Agnes Spicer.
She looked to right and left.
What is to be done?" "I can go round to the shop and bring in a quart," said Ruth.
"You are very good," she said again.
He might in some respects have been an Irish boy himself.
My word!--Tom, my boy, pass me a fork to examine." Tom took up a fork and handed it to Mrs.
Darling dad, your own Kathleen will tell you everything, and you may give me what punishment you think best when the fun is over.
"Next door to pride comes honesty.
It was a little better than a workman's house, but not much; there were two rooms downstairs and two rooms upstairs, and that was all.
"Isn't it scrumptious?" said Kate Rourke.--"Oh, is that you, Susy Hopkins?
I hope you will be better to-morrow.
"I meant to pay for forty.
"I am fifteen, bless your heart, darling!" replied Kathleen.
The next moment the good lady had departed, and Kathleen, looking thoroughly bewildered, was left alone.
I suppose I must have a tea, but it must be a very plain one." "No; it must be a very nice tea.
or two out of that charming Miss O'Flynn; mean to coax Aunty Church to give me that microscope when she moves across the sea to Ireland.
The girls streamed into the playground.
You can go now, Alice Tennant.
She'll get tired of sitting there by herself if only you have patience." "But I am due at Cassandra's for supper" and Mary Addersley and Rhoda Pierpont are to call for me at half-past seven." "Oh, that's it, is it?" said David.--"Ben, leave off teasing." For Ben was whistling and jumping about, and making the most expressive faces at poor Alice,--"I will see what I can do," he said, and he ran upstairs.
I have been sent over to this country to learn.
It is just this: I can't belong to two sides.
Can you let her know?" "Step in here, miss." Alice was shown into a small waiting-room.
"Why, Ruth," said Cassandra, "what is the matter with you?
It was just sweet of her to get things like this to give us.
"You seem to have got in a lot of fresh goods, mother," said Tom.
"I'll open the door," said Tom.
Let the ladies look after themselves.
She had been working in various ways ever since six o'clock that morning, and the darning of the boys' rough socks hurt her eyes and made her fingers ache.
Now, mother, don't you call that riches?" "Three hundred pounds!" said Mrs.
Thus ended the great rebellion.
The Box from Dublin and Its Treasures 93 IX.
"If," continued Miss Mackenzie, interrupting Mrs.
"It won't take me long to say what I want to say." She linked her hand in her companion's as she spoke.
She glanced at Kathleen with disgust.
"Oh, it's that stupid, tiresome Ruth Craven," answered Hannah.
If, therefore, you do not immediately forsake that society, and immediately promise here and now that you will give it up forever, we shall have the painful duty of expelling you from the school.
Ruth Craven has only just joined.
I have something of importance to say to you." "What can she mean?" said Kathleen.
What a humble abode the prime favorite, Ruth Craven, lived in!
She knew that the little girl was very poor and very clever.
Tennant's motherly care and for Kathleen's board and lodging.
I am tired out with one thing and another.
Only don't do it again, darling, for it is my place to give you tea, not yours to give it to me." CHAPTER VII.
"How careless of me not to have shut it!" she thought.
I have made up my mind; I can't." "You have really made up your mind?" "Quite--quite; indeed I cannot." "Do you know what this means?" "I can guess." "We shall be obliged to call a meeting of the governors.
The two young ladies are out in the garden." "Thank you," said Kathleen.
Kathleen fixed her deep-blue roguish eyes on the good woman's face.
Cassandra, with her face beaming as the sun, made a sort of figure-head for the smaller girls.
We must have the backyard." "What!
She had no brothers of her own, but their loss was made up for by the adoration of about twenty young cousins who were always loafing about the place and following Kathleen wherever she turned.
We must bear with some discomforts on account of that." "I suppose so," said Alice, shrugging her shoulders.
Aunt Katie O'Flynn has given me some money for that purpose.
And I ran away to see you.
You'd have taken an hour hobbling round all by yourself.
There was a slight rain falling, and two or three girls standing in a group raised their umbrellas, but they still stood beside the gates.
You certainly ought to do what she suggests." "But I am afraid," said Kathleen, "that I am not going to do what I ought.
She fixed her eyes now on Susy in a very meaning way.
She tore it open, and gave a loud scream.
This was a great deal from Alice, who had made up her mind never to be friends with the Irish girl.
She was an Irish girl again, sitting close to one of her very own.
The best way on the present occasion is to be silent.
I will work alongside of you, Ruth--you and I at the same things.
So you'll have to reckon with me on the occasion of the next meeting." Kathleen sat very still, her face thoughtful.
Hopkins's most precious store was produced; real silver spoons--from the same source--made their appearance; a few cups and saucers of good old china were added.
"But I will tell you what, Ruthie.
Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Irma pehar and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.
And she has got a drop of water full of wriggly things all alive; and she says we drink it by the gallon, and it is no wonder we feel bad in our insides.
Church made a grab at it, and held it tightly in her hand, which was covered by a black mitten.
It will be madness to refuse.
Church was comfortably established in the easy-chair in the little parlor, with her feet on the fender, and a nice view of the street from the window near by--when her best widow's-cap was perched upon her head, and her little black mitts were drawn over her delicate, small hands--she looked around her and gave a brief sigh of satisfaction.
I shall have to eat it myself, for I have no money to buy anything else.
And the governors and the head-mistress sent for this girl and asked her to betray her companions--those girls to whom she had sworn fealty--and the girl refused." "Quite right," said old Mr.
Go on, my child; I'm attending to every word." "The girl decided to accept the kindness from the paying girl, and to do that she had to give up the society.
It will be a lark.
"What wouldn't every other girl in the school give to have such a face as that, and such hair as that?" thought Cassandra.
"You needn't suppose I am going to waste my good tea on you if you haven't brought the money.
"I did what I was made to do.
"We must meet again in a couple of days," said Kathleen finally.
She will not hate you; she will forgive you.
David went out and brought in a telegram.
Sit down now and sup your porridge.
I must have a real desperate burst of naughtiness.
I know it; I am sure of it.
Squash the whole thing at once, or expect my serious displeasure.--O'HARA." "Is there an answer?" asked David.
She is bound on all occasions to behave with sobriety, with a sense of modesty and true womanly feeling; she is never, if she is a true member of the school, to join herself to rebels who do not believe in its rules.
They fear that during this term you may be forced to continue in your present low position; but they earnestly hope that you will work very hard, so as to be removed into a higher form.
For instance, the house where the Weldons lived went by the ambitious name of Sans Souci.
Can I have a form?
I know so little about the school." "Certain?
I haven't any; but then I have lots of boy cousins, which comes to much the same thing." The girls by this time had reached the large bedroom which they shared on the first floor.
She soon reached her destination, walked up the little path which led to the tiny cottage, and tapped with her fingers on the door.
"Whatever is the hour, child?" "It is going on for six o'clock; and they will be here at half-past seven at the latest." "Very well," said Tom; "if I must go I will have a talk with Brownie." He looked at Susy as if he meant to defy her, but Susy was too wise to anger him at that moment.
"But, after all, my naughtiness needn't make that stupid old Alice late for her darling lessons." She scrambled off the bed, drew back the bolt, and returned to her old position.
"It is Kathleen O'Hara;" "It is Kathleen O'Hara herself;" "Well, she has come at last;" "Yes, it is Kathleen O'Hara," passed from lip to lip, until Kathleen felt that her name had got round her and above her and to right and left of her.
What do you say to Carrigrohane in the summer, and a gun all to yourself?
She's got plenty to think about.--Won't you turn him out now, Aunt Church?
If the ladies of the school and those awful governors were to come along and to see a boy in the midst of forty girls, I do believe we'd all be put in prison.
"She thinks, I suppose," said Kathleen, "that she'll subdue me by these means.
"How prim and proper every one looked in the school to-day!" she said.
In the passage a monitress was standing, and when she saw Kathleen she came up to her and said in an agitated tone: "They are all assembled in the great hall.
She must return with me at once." "But I can't.
"It is so awfully nice to have met you!
Susy Hopkins, remembering her blouse and her proud position as a member of the Cabinet of the Queen of the Wild Irish Girls, felt for a moment inclined to disobey; but Mrs.
Some of the girls went off into violent hysterics; others rushed out of the great hall, half-fainting; while others controlled themselves and listened as best they could.
That is in Oxford Street.
There came a rattle at the handle of the door.
You will come to-night, in any case, won't you?" "Yes, I will come to-night; but I am not happy about it, and I wish Kathleen--Oh, I know it is very fascinating, and Kathleen is just delightful, but I should not like our teachers to know." "Of course not," said Susy, staring at her.
She learned to be a thief, and she broke her mother's heart, and she was locked up in prison.
"I am not a bit good.
Alice was still there, looking more stormy than ever.
"Well, good-night; we meet again this day week." There was quite a flutter of excitement along that lonely road as the Wild Irish Girls returned to their different homes.
For the matter of that, I'll creep into the pig-sty with Brownie, and we can look over the doorway." "Oh, Tom, you are certain to be discovered.
Oh, mother, how could you?" "Run upstairs at once, child, and take it off.
"Can't you tell us, Kathleen," she said, "how to get Ireland into England--how to introduce what is good of Ireland into England?
"It's my opinion," she said, speaking in a slow, emphatic, rather awful voice, "that you are a very, very bad little girl.
We must worship the beautiful new star from afar.
"I am desperately sorry, and so is mother." "Eh!
Tennant walked down the street, Kathleen went to the window and looked after her.
I left it entirely for my own benefit.
We might have one English old lady.
Only that I never cross you, Kathleen, I'd have written to know the meaning of it." "It doesn't matter about you knowing." Here Kathleen briefly and in graphic language described the Society of the Wild Irish Girls.
"And here's a fresh egg for you.
Why did she leave her own country?" Ruth was silent.
"If you will allow me to put you two ladies into a cab, the cabman will take you to the Hôtel Métropole.
"We want to go to see a lady at the Hôtel Métropole," she said.
Hopkins took the bull by the horns and said quietly: "I came out on purpose to see you, Ruth Craven." "Well, and what do you want?" asked Ruth.
"Come here, Miss O'Hara," said the voice of Miss Ravenscroft at that moment.
It's a wonder I could come at all," said Susy.
Maria is keeping company, she tells me, and would like a few fine clothes--naturally, the creature!
It is sad to relate, nevertheless it is a fact, that Kathleen O'Hara openly neglected her lessons.
May I call you Kathleen?" "Just as you please, Susan.
There was no recent improvement in education, no better methods, no sanitary requirements which were not introduced into the Great Shirley School.
She and Kathleen had almost a quarrel as to who was to carry up the tray, but Kathleen won the day; and when Mrs.
"Oh, Ruth," she said, "will you come to town with me?
Those girls who had joined Kathleen's society were almost now more or less in a state of tension.
She wore a very dark-blue serge dress, and her white sailor-hat looked correct and pretty on her shining brown hair.
Oh, my broth of an old dad, wouldn't I like to hug you this blessed minute?
How dare she order me about?
"Well, all the same, I feel rather anxious.
I want Maria to clear the tea-things away, as I have some cutting out to do; so be quick, dear." Kathleen entered.
I don't mind Miss Spicer so much; she's the music teacher.
Aunt Katie flung herself into a deep arm-chair; Kathleen did likewise, and then they talked to their heart's content.
My dear, why should you sacrifice everything for the sake of this naughty Irish girl?" "Because I love her, and because it would be mean," answered Ruth, and now she burst into tears.
In appearance Cassandra was a tall, well-made girl, graceful in her movements, and very self-possessed in manner.
She had been on the tip-top of the hills of her own fantasy all that evening.
That blouse is too smart for the coarse blue serge skirt you were wearing." "I know it is; but I can't afford a better skirt.
Then the schoolgirls and schoolboys and many other people of the poorer class used to drop in for penn'orths and ha'p'orths of stationery, for pens, for ink, for sealing-wax, &c.
It must have cost you a great deal to feed and clothe me." "No, no, child; far from that.
The entire party, numbering about forty-three in all, arrived at the cottage.
Never was there such and big and fascinating inmate of the lower fifth before.
When I am back again at home I shall play 'The Harp that once through Tara's Halls,' but I can't do it justice here.
"It doesn't sound right, does it?" "Right or wrong, it is fun," said Kathleen.
"Ah, my dear good friend, I like to look jolly once in a way.
He burst into the parlor where his mother and Susy were sitting.
Susy walked into the school with her head high in the air; she quite adored Kathleen, for she was making her a person of great distinction.
But, after all, was she quite happy?
She was mad about the money, and nobody could have been nastier than she might have turned out but for me.
I just spoke to her the first day I went to the school." "She has asked me too.
"And I wanted to have her all to myself; I had such a lot to say to her.
Prayers were held as usual in the great hall, and then the members of the different classes went to their places and the work of the morning began.
No one ever had a clearer head for business or for right and wrong than grandfather when he is at his best.
RUTH WILL NOT BETRAY KATHLEEN.
"Have a cup of tea; it will help you to think more than anything," said Susy, and in a brisk and businesslike fashion she dived into the cupboard, took out the cups and saucers, a little box of biscuits, a tiny jug of milk, a caddy of tea, and proceeded to fill the little teapot.
What a little goose she was!" "She was led into it by Kathleen.
Your grandfather looked up at him, and his blue eyes seemed to melt with love and pride, and he said: "'What will you be, my boy?
If you are a good boy, and do me credit, and get on with your books, and do well in that calling which Providence means you to work in, why, I may leave it to you when I am called hence, Tom." "There, Tom!" said Susy, coming forward.
"There is very little doubt that she will have to be expelled.
"It's in real downright delight I am.
Your granny has missed you too to-day." Ruth smiled at him and went into the kitchen.
Kathleen rushed to the door and flung it open.
Susy, as a member of the Cabinet, must certainly be one of the last to break the rules.
She would not only wear it, but she would delight in it; but nothing would induce her to take it if she thought you had given it." "Then don't let's tell her.
"I can't stand it," she thought.
She had not been at all willing to lend Mrs.
Cassandra was a girl of few words, and after nodding to her companions, she gave them to understand that she did not intend to enter into any special conversation.
You could not by any possibility forsake her, could you?" "No, of course not," said Ruth very slowly.
The queen commands that it should be hidden, and the queen's commands must be obeyed." Susy slipped into her blouse.
She then flung herself on the bed, put her two arms under her head, and gazed out of the window.
It is in her own beautiful Irish, handwriting.
"You have spoken kind words to me; but what you have set me to do is not at all to my taste.
Take it off and put it on the hob; and be careful, for goodness' sake, Susy Hopkins, or you'll scald yourself." Susy removed the kettle from its position on the glowing bed of coals, and then resumed her narrative.
But you are the one my heart has gone out to.
She is very fond of good things, and as she never gives them to herself, she will enjoy ours all the more." "She'll think that I am rich, when I am as poor as a church mouse," said Mrs.
Here is the box; you drop it in: two pounds in gold--I hope to goodness your mother has sent the money in gold--two pounds in gold and the rest in silver.
I must do something desperate, and if Alice opposes me I'll have to do something worse." "You are a clipper!" said David Tennant, smiling into her face.
"I am glad," she said to herself, "the right side of the ledger means giving up all, and the best of life is to be able to lose it if necessary.
She had entered the Shirley School when quite a little child, had gone steadily up through the different classes and the various removes, until she found herself nearly at the head of the sixth form.
Ta-ta for the present." Mary turned to the left, and Alice continued her walk.
"Why did you, a silly young girl, come over here, a stranger, to ruin the school and make us all unhappy?" "I can't answer you that," said Kathleen, flinging out her hands.
Patrick's Day,' Wisha, then, daddy!
I am rather glad there is an old quarry; it was quite nice of little Susy to suggest it, and she will meet me, the little colleen.
"And you can take me there?" "This blessed minute." "All right; come along." "When will you give me the diamond set in the brooch?" "It isn't a real diamond, you know.
"And I say there's a great deal of humbug and balder-dash in the world," said Hannah Johnson.
Aren't you awfully frightened?" "Not I," said Kathleen.
You have promised to come back with me to the school this afternoon, in order that Miss Spicer may give you a special lesson in music." "Arrah, then, my dear!" cried Kathleen, "it isn't me you'll see at school again to-day.
I never saw anybody quite so horrible as Aunt Church is to-day." "Never mind, Susy; never mind," said her mother.
"You are prepared to reply to the following questions?" she said.
"Yesterday a meeting of the governors was convened.
You are never under any circumstances to breathe a word against dear old Ireland.
We must hope for the best." "And if it is let," said Kathleen suddenly, running up to the old lady and whispering in her ear, "I'll get Dad to send me a cheque, and you shall have it, so you won't lose one way or the other." This whisper of Kathleen's was very soothing to Mrs.
And what would mother say?
The piece which was presented on the boards happened to be a fairly good one.
"And I don't see," she added, "why I may not look at any part of my own house that I take a fancy to." "Of course," said Kathleen.
"Now," she said, _"Rule One_.
"The principal thing that it means," continued Kathleen, raising her voice to a slightly theatrical pitch, and extending her arm so that the lamplight fell all over it--"the chief thing that it means is to be free--yes, free as the air, free as the mountain streams, free as the dear, darling, glorious, everlasting mountains themselves.
"I'm not going to be nasty to you any more," she said.
"I think we shall do now very well." Susy and Tom quite agreed with their mother.
How soon would Alice get tired?
"Oh, that's very likely, darling," said Kathleen; "but I don't think I much care.
Again she would lead the tender and solemn strains of the march; and again she would dance over the keys so lightly, so ravishingly, that the girls kept time with their feet to her notes.
After they had passed through they found themselves in a large circular cavern open to the sky.
Be quick now; there's pease-pudding and pork for dinner.
The floor for an instant seemed to rise up as though it would strike her; then she felt composed, but very cold and white.
"Come here, you bad little thing," she said.
I have respected him more than any man I ever knew.
I want to have a word with her." Kathleen pushed past Ruth and ran up to Susy.
"A good many people will be saying bad things about Kathleen before long, and perhaps you will be questioned.
"I can get you some things at the railway station; you ought not to wait for supper in town," said the gentleman in a stern voice.
To please Alice I'd have to be the primmest of the prim, and always stooping over my horrid lessons, and the end of it there'd be no more of poor Kathleen O'Hara--- it's dead and in her grave she'd be, the creature.
Her face was white, but this fact only increased the rare delicacy, the sort of fragrance, which her appearance always presented.
"It must be a good way from here.
It is much too good to be refused.
And, oh, Susy, mum's the word with regard to me being well off.
Now I can do what I like with you all." "You certainly can," said Susy Hopkins.--"We are devoted to our queen, aren't we, girls?" "We have fallen in love with her on the spot," said Rosy Myers.
She looked rather nice; she wore a very pretty pink muslin blouse, which suited her well.
Kathleen had on a very shabby coat, a most unsuitable cap of bright-blue velvet on her clustering masses of curls, and no necktie and no gloves.
I do not ask the girls who are spoken of as the paying girls to expose their companions, nor do I ask those foundationers who have not joined the band of insurgents to betray their fellows; but what I do ask is this: that the girls themselves--the rebels--should rise in a body and point to their leader.
"Let me in, please, Kathleen; let me in," called Alice's voice.
Remember that what I have said to you is said in the interest of the school, and absolutely behind closed doors.
Her retainers should feel certain that they dwelt in her heart.
What can it be about?" said Alice.
Craven with a frank smile, showing a row of pearly teeth, and then sat down near the fire.
Then she got into bed and fell asleep.
I wish I might drive that horse instead of the stupid old Jehu on the box.
I don't remember anything about her except that she was old and had wrinkles and a big picture-hat--the sort of hat that Ruth Craven would look pretty in." Mrs.
There was no one in the hall, and she was absolutely daring enough to go out by that door.
Presently she looked at the clock.
The face appeared, the tongue now stuck into the cheek, one eye winking furiously.
It is the safest place you can possibly imagine, for no one will ever look for us there.
You must allow me to stand alone; I am your queen." "That you are, and I love you," said Mary.
"How old are you, Miss O'Hara?" the English teacher, Miss Dove, had said.
I should not like to see girls in the position you are in without offering to help them." "But what do you mean?" said Kathleen.
I want to help those who are down-trodden and distressed.
In order to do this they must get full particulars.
AUNT CHURCH AT DINNER AND THE CONSEQUENCES THEREOF.
You have great talent; if you add to that real musical knowledge you can do almost anything." "But I don't think I much care to.
She got up and went to the window.
"I must ask you not to lock the door.
She had to count every penny, and, above all things, to avoid going in debt.
Well, that's good of them," said old Mr.
"It is I that must leave you, my darling," she said.
It is from Miss Kathleen O'Hara, but that don't matter, either.
What time does your grandmother expect you home?" "Oh, I don't know.
When she returned to the house she found a telegram waiting for her.
I will ask her to walk home with me to-day and have tea.
"You will have to bear it now, my pet, unless you have real cause for complaint.
"You forget that this is Wednesday.
Her real feelings she never told; her real hopes she never breathed.
"They are all poor," she thought.
I will talk the matter over with you to-morrow." "And you will find me unchanged," said Kathleen.
Here the cab drew up with a jerk at the Métropole.
Once she uttered a short, expressive sort of sigh; and once she said half-aloud: "I do hope God will help me.
Meanwhile Kathleen O'Hara, after walking a very short way with Susy Hopkins, gave her an abrupt good-bye and started running in the direction of the Tennants' house.
She has thrown ridicule upon me.
There was a timid little girl called Janey Ford, who whispered to her friend that the Wild Irish Girls belonged to the rebels in Ireland, and that it might be considered necessary by the government of the country to have them taken up and put into prison.
But what I want to say now is this.
"He's a good boy, and the moral of his grand-uncle; and I'll leave him that microscope.
Soon the three were seated at their frugal dinner.
Certainly there can't be more than one.
"Come, little Irish colleen," he said.
You can read it, only don't tear it all to bits." The girls did read the letter.
She is placed in a hard position, but she is so clever and so pretty that she could do anything.
Please write down, Miss Judson"--here she turned to the clerk--"that Ruth Craven has refused to answer my question with regard to Kathleen O'Hara.
"What is the matter, Ruth?" she repeated.
Naylor, speaking in a tremulous voice, which could scarcely be heard half-way down the room, "that it would be best for you not to conceal the truth." "And I agree," said Mrs.
Her mother certainly required if ever a mother did require a daughter.
And how is everything?" "I will tell you after supper, grandfather.
When I left the house yesterday there were three pounds in the till--three pounds and fivepence-halfpenny.
Don't you know how I love you?
You have doubtless indulged in a very free-and-easy and unconventional life in your own country.
It doesn't want us, you foundationers and me, to have our fun--our little bit of innocent fun." "Very mean of it!" said one or two, while the others groaned.
Meanwhile Kathleen was running along the road.
This she did very briefly.
"I am fond of Alice Tennant, and I am fond of Cassandra Weldon." "And I care for Lucy Sharp"; "And I am devoted to Amelia Dawson," said other members of the Cabinet.
A little wonder and a little uneasiness came into her heart.
"Girls of the Great Shirley School," she said, "your head-mistress, Miss Ravenscroft, has conveyed to you a message from me and from the other governors.
You have done something which has distressed her very much.
"There can't be more than two bedrooms upstairs," thought Susy.
My name is Kathleen O'Hara, and I hail from the ould country.
"I won't tell you how I got it, nor who gave it to me.
I have a plan to propose.--KATHLEEN O'HARA.
I haven't heard of her for a long time back, but most likely she died in the work-house.
Ruth felt her gentle heart beat high.
I never saw such a muddle-headed woman as your aunt Bessie.
I can see by your manner, Alice, that I have got into disgrace.
"I love it," she said.
The Wild Irish Girl 26 IV.
There'll be about thirty or forty of us, and we must all be smuggled into the cottage." "Oh, dear!" said Susy.
"You all see Ruth Craven," continued Miss Mackenzie.
Then I was told that a lot of the girls were foundation girls, and they weren't as rich as the others, and they were somewhat snubbed.
I am going to write to father.
Well, it is half-past six now, and she will have to whistle for me.
There was a look on Ruth's face which made her feel no longer interested in the Irish potatoes.
Their eyes often met, and those eyes spoke volumes.
"You have balanced things a long time ago," she said.
I'm so excited I can scarcely think of anything else.
O'Hara, and she wrote to Miss Ravenscroft and asked if there was a vacancy for Kathleen, and if she knew of any one who would be nice to her and with whom she could live.
I can tell you there wasn't much freedom about that; it was all horrid." "Well, we have shops in Ireland too," continued Kathleen, "and I suppose people have to mind them.
She'll get me more than I can wear.
Come in, dear; come in." Mrs.
It was quite an extraordinary thing for the paying girls of the Great Shirley School to be so interested and excited about a foundationer.
I thought you had a cold.
The room had a bay-window with French doors; these opened on to a little flower-lawn.
I'll do it." "Nonsense, granny!
"Here is a porter who looks kind." She went up to the man.
I wish it were different.
I have not many opportunities to practice." "I live in the same terrace," said Miss Spicer eagerly, "and my piano is hardly ever used.
Tennant, "what will Alice say?" "Maria and I don't care twopence what Alice says.
Mother is looking very white about the gills; a new-laid egg that she hasn't to pay for will nourish her up like anything." "So it will," said Susy.
She had completely won their immature masculine hearts, and they invariably sat one on each side of her at meals, helped her to the best the table contained, and fussed over her in a way that pleased her young majesty.
"You couldn't expect us not to have a bit of meat on Sunday," said Tom.
"I shall get used to it," replied Ruth.
There was an interval of silence, and then Alice had her reward!
"That is nice," she said, and caught his hand as it went backwards and forwards over her silky black hair, and kissed it.
Her face was beautiful in the truest sense of the world; it did not at all match with the shabby, faded clothes which she wore.
Miss Ravenscroft talked to her a little longer, but Ruth was firm.
She began to ladle out spoonful after spoonful and put it into the little brown teapot, which she then filled up with hot water.
Susy rushed upstairs, put on her outdoor jacket and a cheap hat, and, trying to hide the holes in her gloves, ran downstairs.
"The thing about these badges is that you will always feel them pressing against your hearts, and nobody else will know anything about them.
She saw something in Cassandra's eye which made her slightly shiver.
"And what a chance for Ruth if only she had been different!
I love the beauty of the old.
This she put with trembling fingers on Mrs.
I do love her--I am sure I should love her dearly--but I can't have much to say to her now." Accordingly, while Cassandra waited for Ruth, hoping that she would appear at any moment, and that she could tell her what a good thing she had arranged on her behalf, Ruth avoided Cassandra.
I have lost a large sum for such a poor woman." Susy pitied her mother, tried to assure her that the fault was not hers, was convinced that the money would be found, and went on talking a lot of nonsense until Mrs.
I am in luck; I am--I am." Her mother's hand knocking on the wall brought her down from the clouds.
Ben was sitting up for her; he opened the door.
"Well, now," she said, speaking with eagerness, her face all smiles and dimples, "the way is made plain for you at least, Miss Craven.--Who do you think has come, Kathleen?
I suppose Dave would beat me black and blue for doing a thing of this sort.
"Never mind; we will go round by your cottage and ask them.
As if I'd demean myself by taking a place!
You don't know the Great Shirley School as well as I do.
Hopkins in an annoyed voice.
There were eager voices and sounds of people hurrying about, and then a fragrant smell of fried sausages.
There she saw Ruth Craven.
"You shall have your almshouse if it can be got.
But Cassandra as a rule was perfectly sweet and pleasant to the foundation girls, and this trait in her friend's character annoyed Florence more than anything else.
"Grandfather agrees with me," she said to herself.
She first of all entered the parlor.
She reached the foot of the window in perfect safety, saw that the ivy looked precisely as it had looked when she climbed down it, and began her upward ascent.
This door was never opened except to the head-mistress and her visitors.
I shall be sorry I asked you to come with me if you look any graver." "But you make me feel grave, Kathleen," said Ruth.
I can't abide finding myself on the salty sea.
I am quite smitten with David; and I like you, too.
"She is the most awful girl I ever heard of.
She'd never forgive me.--You can tell Miss Ravenscroft, Alice, that my aunt has come to see me, and that I have been obliged to go to town.
"I suppose I must stay down here and give up my supper.
You annoyed me very much indeed.
Ruth Resigns the Premiership 171 XV.
She told me, too, that you have been extremely kind to her.
"Don't be silly; it is absurd for you to go on like that.
Why do you ask such a strange question?" "I shouldn't think you would wish to; but there is no accounting for what some people can live through." "Alice, what do you mean?" "What I say." "Explain yourself." "No." "Is there anything very awful going to happen at school?" "You will find out for yourself when you get there." "Dear me!" said Kathleen; "you look as if the deluge was coming." "And so it is," said Alice.
"We must make her our queen.
Perhaps you could try for a scholarship in one of these great colleges afterwards.
Forty people coming into this tiny house, where we can scarcely turn round with more than two in the house!
Tennant turned and spoke to her daughter.
She felt much more sober than she had done in the morning; she was inclined to think, to consider her ways.
2 Willow Cottages." "Oh, I know," said Miss Mackenzie, looking with more approval at the child.
If they do, my orders are that they take no apparent notice of them, but write down the names of all present.
The scene was vivid and picturesque.
Church's very humble abode between three and four o'clock.
It seemed to her that if she let her soul go it would mount on that breeze and get up high above the clouds and the temptations of earth.
Kathleen smiled back at her.
But I want to see Mrs.
He told his schoolfellows that at that moment he lost his heart to Kathleen.
At the boys' school they've caught sight of her, and there isn't a boy that hasn't fallen in love with her.
"But the lining has got moth-eaten." "Who minds that?" said Tom.
"I don't want to be bribed." "It isn't bribery really; it is paying you for giving me a great convenience.
I was up, my dear; I had taken a bit of a walk, and I came in and sat down by the fire.
If you don't like it all at all, it's home you will come with me to the old castle and the old country.
What did she say--can't you remember?" "I am ever so sorry, but I can't.
I must go to her at once.
May I play you something different?" Miss Spicer was about to refuse, but looking at the girl, whose cheeks were flushed and eyes full of fire, she changed her mind.
There was nothing about Kathleen to indicate that that evening she meant to steal from home and, in company with forty companions, go to London.
I ask because I want to know," said Kathleen.
"There are a deal of funny things whispered about your school just now," he said.
"The window is a little open," said Kathleen.
Perhaps there were worse things than that.
Now Cassandra, who had many friends in the school, had amongst them, of course, her greatest friend.
The child is very unhappy.
It is an unpleasant ceremony, and one which you will never be able to forget; it will haunt you for life, Ruth Craven.
Her face was full of intelligence, but was rather plain than otherwise, for her mouth was too wide and her nose the reverse of classical.
"Why shouldn't the child enjoy her pretty things?
I never saw anything uglier than poor old Towser when he broke his leg and cut his upper jaw; but although he was ugly, he was the darling of my heart.
The next moment she had left the room.
Let me tuck my hand inside your arm, sweetest." A titter was heard from the surrounding girls.
"We'll boil it and say nothing about it, and just pop it on her plate when she's having her supper.
"Please," said Kathleen, "we have come to see my aunt, Miss O'Flynn.
How silly you are!" "Is it silly?
You don't look more than twenty.
It is--no, it's not nothing, for it is something; but I can't tell you.
Tennant admitted that Kathleen's conduct was very bad.
Were you ever in the old country, miss, if I might venture to ask a civil question?" "No," said Miss Atherton in a very suppressing tone.
You must run round this afternoon and make arrangements.
I want to be quite generous with my lovely things." "Well, do stop talking," said Alice.
Conscience and Difficulties 106 X.
She went upstairs and selected from her heterogeneous wardrobe one of her very prettiest and most fashionable and most unsuitable dresses.
You must let me come up with you." But Kathleen made no answer.
"Is that not so, Mrs.
"Child, I don't want to doubt you--nobody who knows you could do that--but it will mean ruin to poor Susy and to many and many a girl at the Great Shirley School.
I have a bag full of them here.
I should hate you to get into trouble.
She went to the sideboard, filled a glass, and drank it off.
Kathleen sat bolt-upright in the centre of the class.
"They have come," said Susy, her face white as a sheet.
"Five shillings all to yourself; and I won't press your mother about the installment which was due to me yesterday.
You make me very uncomfortable by going on in this extremely silly way, Kathleen." "I will darn some more socks for you, darling, tired pet," whispered Kathleen coaxingly.
Over her showy dress she wore a long opera-cloak, so that at first her splendors were not fully visible.
"How tiresome of her to have gone so fast!" she said to herself?
You are going to take advantage of mother's offer?" "I can't help myself.
She is a wayward child.
She doesn't pay any of the fees; she has no pretence to being a lady.
I don't quite understand." "If you will kindly resume your story we shall be obliged, Miss Ravenscroft," said Miss Mackenzie.
"Oh, Aunt Church, you really can't think of Brownie at a moment like this!
But it isn't as rosy you are as you used to be.
I can't stay in the room with her any longer; she is past bearing.
They were Susy Hopkins, Kate Rourke, Clara Sawyer, Rosy Myers, Janey Ford, and Mary Wilkins.
She said she'd do what she could to put you into one of those sweet little almshouses; and when Miss Kathleen says a thing she means it.
She wears white." "I am going out now, Kathleen; aren't you coming with me?" "No, thank you, my love." "You ought to, Kathleen.
She had crossed the common when she looked behind her; Alice was still running, but she was also in the distance.
"You are young, aren't you?
She had managed to buy them that day, and had smuggled them off without any one being the wiser.
Kathleen jumped up, shut the window, and fastened it.
If at the end of three days you are still obstinately silent, there is nothing whatever for it but that you should be expelled from the school.
Why are you going to be so obstinate?
"If I work desperately hard, and stop my ears so that I needn't hear a sound, I may have done by nine o'clock." Just at that moment two ladies came in to ask for a special sort of stationery.
Why are you in such a hurry?" "I am not," said Ruth, who was not going to get out of her difficulty by telling an untruth.
This is my tea, and Maria fetched it.
Eventually they got seats in a comfortable carriage, and found themselves going back again to Merrifield.
Don't you think it is all splendid?" cried Susy.
She burst into tears now and flung her arms around Ruth's neck.
Aunt Church at Dinner, and the Consequences Thereof 150 XIV.
Who was Hannah Johnson that she dared to speak so rudely to one so charming and beautiful as Kathleen O'Hara?
Miss Ravenscroft felt as though smiles were very near.
There are several members, and she herself is the leader.
"I must go back now, for I have promised to go for a walk with Mrs.
"I have only soup and fish for dinner to-day," said Mrs.
That is what I came to say.
"Ah, Cassandra!" she said, "now you will be happy." "Yes; Ruth has accepted our offer." "Indeed I have, Mrs.
Ruth's head was bent over her books.
It will be the greatest meeting the society has ever had; I wouldn't miss it myself for the world." "Oh, hurrah!" said Susy.
And you must stay here too--what is your name?
"If you don't mind, mother, I will go to bed now." Meanwhile things were moving rather rapidly in another direction.
Alice was there, looking pale and headachy.
TOM HOPKINS AND HIS WAY WITH AUNT CHURCH.
"Don't tire your dear voice," she said.
But you are a good child.
She put some autumn leaves in a jug on the center of the table.
"And a very good little girl Susan Hopkins is," she said, after a moment's pause; "and a particularly great friend of mine, being, so to speak, my grand-niece.--Mary, my dear, call your little girl in." Mrs.
And she is so splendid to look at, and has such a gallant sort of way.
"I will go in and see how grandfather is, granny," she said, and she disappeared into the little parlor.
Craven was not in the kitchen.
So you will stick to me, won't you girls?" "That we will!" came from the mouths of all.
And all those other women--they seem quite cross with me.
Her musical talent very nearly amounted to genius.
Alice, I should like to know which is best--to be horribly cross, or to tell nice polite lies.
Church that burglars with masks on their faces had burst into the shop at dead of night and penetrated to his mother's bedroom, and had held pistols to her throat and Susy's throat, and a great bare, glittering knife to his; and had he been further able to tell her that he himself, unaided, had grappled with the enemy, had wrested the knife from the hand of one, and knocked the loaded pistols from the hands of the others--then, indeed, he would have felt himself a hero, and the mere fact of not being able to return the money on the appointed day would not have signified.
Ruth, darling, you don't know how pretty you look; and even though you have deserted me, and won't join my darling, beloved society, yet I shall always love you." Here Kathleen seated herself near Ruth and flung one arm around her waist.
You can be a _great_ friend of mine." "Oh, I don't mind," said Ben.
"I should like that which would make me give _my life_ if necessary," he had said; and her grandfather had said, "Sometimes when you come out on the right side of the ledger it means giving _all_ that you possess." Ruth could scarcely see the faces which rose up like a great ocean beneath her, but she remembered her father's words very distinctly.
She meant to tell her mother frankly that it was a present from Miss Kathleen O'Hara, but Mrs.
You are torturing the noblest girl in the world.
Hurrah for the Wild Irish Girls for ever!" they shouted.
She had large deep-violet eyes, jet-black hair, and a sweet, fresh complexion.
Poor dear mother doesn't know what she is talking about." Occupied with her own thoughts, the road did not turn out long to Susy.
She gave a quick glance round her, then came up to Mrs.
At last they found one and tumbled into it; the door was slammed, and they were off.
With the exception of the two ladies, there had been no customer in the shop up to the present.
"Don't mind me," she said, whispering to David as she bent towards him.
Church's voice was heard in high and grating accents: "I want to see the person who is talking in the passage." "Oh!
p.177 Typo fixed: changed POSESSED to POSSESSED p.180 Typo fixed: changed TODAY to TO-DAY p.183 Typo fixed: changed METROPOLE to MÉTROPOLE p.184 Typo fixed: changed METROPOLE to MÉTROPOLE p.197 Typo fixed: changed ABOUNT to ABOUT p.205 Typo fixed: changed ARMCHAIR to ARM-CHAIR p.205 Typo fixed: changed PLUM-CAKE to PLUMCAKE p.209 Typo fixed: changed TENANT to TENNANT p.209 Typo fixed: changed PROFUND to PROFOUND p.220 Typo fixed: changed LADYLIKE to LADY-LIKE p.235 Removed an extra closing quote after GOOD THINGS p.241 Typo fixed: changed A SOON AS to AS SOON AS p.247 Removed an extra closing quote after HER JUDGES p.260 Typo fixed: changed FAVORIATE to FAVORITE p.267 Added missing closing quote after THAT, DEAR p.284 Added missing closing quote after THAT POINT p.285 Removed extra opening quote before I CAN'T TELL YOU p.290 Typo fixed: changed FOUND to FOND p.294 Typo fixed: changed GREAW to GREW p.295 Typo fixed: changed TEATABLE to TEA-TABLE p.297 Typo fixed: changed WINDOWSILL to WINDOW-SILL p.301 Removed an extra closing quote after THE GIRL'S FACE p.309 Removed an extra closing quote after WITH RESOLUTION p.325 Added missing closing quote after AWARDED TO THEM End of Project Gutenberg's The Rebel of the School, by Mrs.
She knelt down by the window and looked across over the ugly landscape.
She told me--Miss Ravenscroft did--because she likes you, Ruth, and she would be so terribly sorry if you got into trouble over this matter.
Will you and I go there for an hour or two after supper?" "Do you mean it?" said Kathleen, her eyes filling with laughter, and the tears still wet on her cheeks.
It's a fine time I mean to have.
"I want to have a beautiful, nice tea.
She was admired rather than passionately loved by her companions.
The governors convened a special meeting yesterday; they had Ruth before them, and then tried by every means in their power to get her to tell.
"Quite an army of them," thought Kathleen.
Naylor, and speaking in a very firm tone--"if, instead of these pleasant things happening, a little girl learns to join insurrectionists, to forget those to whom she is indebted for such tremendous advantages, then how do matters stand--eh, Ruth Craven?" "I don't understand," said Ruth.
"And I wish you wouldn't stand between me and the lamp.
"With all my heart," said Rose.
Alice Tennant was also in her class, and she looked very bold and upright and defiant.
Alice awoke, and complained of the cold.
"That she did, ma'am," cried Maria.
Kathleen stopped for a minute.
O'Hara took Miss O'Flynn's hint very much to heart.
Alice considered them very badly trained.
They are under the supposition that there never were such fine ladies to be found in the land before.
It is really most disturbing." "If you would only take poor little Kathleen as she is, you would find her quite agreeable, Alice," was her mother's answer.
"How can you stand it?" said Kathleen.
In her heart of hearts she was very much distressed.
Cassandra and her mother, therefore, were from the very first surrounded by scholarship; they belonged, so to speak, to the scholastic world.
This society must be broken up immediately.
Naylor sobbed quite audibly, and took hold of Ruth's hand, and even kissed it.
Mother and the boys are fairly mad on Kathleen; and as to the servants, there's nothing they wouldn't do for her.
The morning was fresh and beautiful; there was a gentle breeze which fanned her face.
I arrived here as safely as a girl could.
"Now I want to tell you something," continued Cassandra.
The chest of drawers also did duty as a dressing-table, and there was a small square of looking-glass placed on the top.
There wasn't anything to learn.
Expel me, but keep her, for she will be the flower of your school, the greatest ornament, one you will talk of in the dim years of the future.
"Go away," she called out.
She was pacing up and down alone; for, most provoking, all her chosen friends had gone off with that young lady.