It is possible, however, that I may have something better before very many minutes are over, for this is one of my clients, or I am much mistaken.” He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street.
‘So it is,’ he cried.
“That circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village.
His hair, too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top.
“It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been,” he remarked, “and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability.
But to my astonishment, when I came to look round me, neither house nor garden were to be seen.
But I think I have the key of the affair now.” “And where is it?” I asked, smiling.
She would rush to secure it.
Among these he rummaged and read, with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until we were past Reading.
No wind, and not a cloud in the sky.
About this girl, Miss Holder.
There is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of a drunkard’s blow, does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours, and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of complaint can set it going, and there is but a step between the crime and the dock.
I have it here in my museum.” Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand.
“But at any time, day or night, a telegram would bring me down to your help.” “That is enough.” She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face.
You can understand that, living the life which I have described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position.
The story has, I believe, been told more than once in the newspapers, but, like all such narratives, its effect is much less striking when set forth _en bloc_ in a single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth.
“Only one of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles.
John Clay, and I agree with you that he is at the head of his profession.
Merryweather, we must put the screen over that dark lantern.” “And sit in the dark?” “I am afraid so.
Angel’s address you never had, I understand.
People tell me that I have spoiled him.
Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him, and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition, until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals.
During that time she ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains, so that her education has come from Nature rather than from the schoolmaster.
Above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red, jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner’s dwelling.
In the latter, as may be remembered, Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man’s watch, to prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time—a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case.
“I think, Watson,” he remarked at last, “that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this.” “Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four.” “Well, yes.
“I shall never see them again!” he cried.
There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with them.
The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below.
His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking.
There was but one way for it.
They are a most unpleasant couple, but fortunately I spend most of my time in the nursery and my own room, which are next to each other in one corner of the building.
There are several other indications, but these may be enough to aid us in our search.” Lestrade laughed.
There is not an instant to be lost.
At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not yet returned.
I left him then, still puffing at his black clay pipe, with the conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland.
“‘May I ask where you live, sir?’ said I.
Simon said something about ‘jumping a claim.’ She was accustomed to use slang of the kind.
Surely your medical experience would tell you, Watson, that weakness in one limb is often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others.” “Pray continue your narrative.” “Mrs.
“Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts.
“Why did you come to me?” he said, “and, above all, why did you not come at once?” “I did not know.
“He has written to me to say that he would be here at six.
“And now you must on no account lose another instant.
Fritz!’ she cried in English, ‘remember your promise after the last time.
I just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards.
I had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder.
I marked the spot upon my own head.
You give me hopes?” “My opinion is in no way altered.” “Then, for God’s sake, what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?” “If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer.
Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Street would have failed to recognise him.
Is that your hat, Mr.
And then I think that what he foresaw happened.” “But you have no notion as to what it could have been?” “None.” “One more question.
“And now a word as to my household, Mr.
“In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept market-place,” said he.
“That is back through the house into Saxe-Coburg Square.
I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison?
“I shall glance into the case for you,” said Holmes, rising, “and I have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result.
“Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning train.
The place we want must be somewhere near that line.
I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?’ “‘Undoubtedly so.
Grimesby Roylott clad in a long grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers.
He rushes to some secret hoard, where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coat’s sinking.
He would get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat.
Then it lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then, without any warning or sound, a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared, a white, almost womanly hand, which felt about in the centre of the little area of light.
It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this.
Sometimes Holmes would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow.
It is peculiarly strong and stiff.” “Peculiar—that is the very word,” said Holmes.
“The Coroner: That is for the court to decide.
It is the five miles of country which makes the danger.
Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.
I had not an idea who you were when you came in.” “I didn’t know what to do, so I came straight to you.” That was always the way.
I know nothing further of the matter.’ “The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before he died?
I had been told that, if the King employed an agent, it would certainly be you.
It’s as true as gospel, for I began as a ship’s carpenter.” “Your hands, my dear sir.
“I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in Europe.
Her jacket was black, with black beads sewn upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments.
She is even more affected than I.” “You have neither of you any doubt as to your son’s guilt?” “How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands.” “I hardly consider that a conclusive proof.
Looking over his shoulder, I saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck, and a large curling red feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess of Devonshire fashion over her ear.
But if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about Lord St.
And the flap has been gummed, if I am not very much in error, by a person who had been chewing tobacco.
Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but, just as he reached her, he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely down his face.
“The Coroner: I understand that the cry of ‘Cooee’ was a common signal between you and your father?
Roylott’s conduct had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death.
A CASE OF IDENTITY “My dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the fire in his lodgings at Baker Street, “life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent.
You owe a very humble apology to that noble lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as I should be proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to have one.” “Then it was not Arthur who took them?” “I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not.” “You are sure of it!
The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o’clock in the morning.
Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter, after all.
But I am now sleeping in the middle one.” “Pending the alterations, as I understand.
Oh, if you do, Mr.
I should become the laughing-stock of Scotland Yard.” “All right,” said Holmes quietly.
Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated.
We even traced them as far as Reading, but could get no farther, for they had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands.
There is not, and there never has been, any such person.” Lestrade looked sadly at my companion.
Whose, then?” “Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.” “Indeed?
I took advantage now of my attainments.
I am much indebted to you, sir, for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity.” With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way.
This observation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroner’s jury.” “It was a confession,” I ejaculated.
There are one or two minor points which were brought out in the inquest, and which are worth considering.” “What are they?” “It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after the return to Hatherley Farm.
But there I was firm.
Still, of course, I never dared to leave the room for an instant, for I was not sure when he might come, and the billet was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would not risk the loss of it.
He ran when he saw his father on the ground.
It is not so impossible, however, that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work, and this I have endeavoured in my case to do.
‘You shall not have a farthing from me,’ I cried, on which he bowed and left the room without another word.
What a week she must have spent!” “The police have watched this Lascar,” said Inspector Bradstreet, “and I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter unobserved.
You should be ashamed of yourself!” “So I am.
He is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone.
Or should you rather that I sent James off to bed?” “Oh, no, no!
Turner made his money.” “Yes, certainly.” “Thank you, Miss Turner.
If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap.
Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs.
We guard our secret very jealously, however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then, if the facts came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans.
Watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips.
It must be done at once.
I think that we may judge Lord St.
Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his tenant but still remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect equality, as they were frequently together.
Merryweather, but he is at the head of his profession, and I would rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in London.
“I know you, you scoundrel!
Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power.
I do not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman’s face.
Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?” “Yes, it was twisted.” “Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?” “God bless you!
I’ve been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet.” “I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night.
In a few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney’s bill, led him out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness.
Come along!” We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning.
My limbs were weary and stiff, for I feared to change my position; yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension, and my hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions, but I could distinguish the deeper, heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin, sighing note of the bank director.
You have been reading the papers diligently of late, have you not?” “It looks like it,” said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the corner.
Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches.
But look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields, filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law.
It is absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the reward offered of £ 1000 is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price.” “A thousand pounds!
Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?” “I do not know what to think.
“It is a curious thing,” remarked Holmes, “that a typewriter has really quite as much individuality as a man’s handwriting.
But that was not quite good enough, Mr.
It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship.
McCarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us.
His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their position a little clearer both to the general public and to Lord St.
You may set your mind at rest about that.
She stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light, one hand upon the door, one half-raised in her eagerness, her body slightly bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a standing question.
I would call your attention very particularly to two points.
Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in some dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room.
I lay listening with all my ears.
The table was set out ready for me, and Mr.
I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two.
It would only have made him mad to know, so we just fixed it all up for ourselves.
There can be no doubt that the probability—the strong probability—is that the writer was on board of a ship.
Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I shall continue with my miserable story.
There were four protruding fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have been.
“My geese!” The man seemed surprised.
“The glass still keeps very high,” he remarked as he sat down.
I shall be true to Hosmer.
A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become delirious.
“I see that you have had some great trouble,” responded Holmes.
“It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.
This ring—” He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.
Then there was a loud and authoritative tap.
Why, all the morning he was saying to me that, whatever happened, I was to be true; and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us, I was always to remember that I was pledged to him, and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later.
I met him that night, and he called next day to ask if we had got home all safe, and after that we met him—that is to say, Mr.
“‘Never.’ “‘Why, I wonder at that, for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies.’ “‘And what are they worth?’ I asked.
Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.
“‘Death,’ said he, and rising from the table he retired to his room, leaving me palpitating with horror.
Just read it out to me.” “Mrs.
Grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his.
She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out.
Do not worry about my future, for that is provided for; and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me.
Pray draw up to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I observe that you are shivering.” “It is not cold which makes me shiver,” said the woman in a low voice, changing her seat as requested.
But the writing?” “What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?” “Well, but China?” “The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China.
The bride gave me a sovereign, and I mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion.” “This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I; “and what then?” “Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced.
John Hare alone could have equalled.
I cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation.
Just hold out while I fix the derbies.” “I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,” remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists.
“The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago, during a lengthy visit to Warsaw, I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress, Irene Adler.
“We have touched on three English counties in our short drive, starting in Middlesex, passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent.
There was no truth, Mr.
“Oh, sir,” he cried, “can you tell me where it went to?” “It came here.” “Here?” “Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved.
Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it.
There’s twenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.’ “‘Thank you, Maggie,’ says I; ‘but if it is all the same to you, I’d rather have that one I was handling just now.’ “‘The other is a good three pound heavier,’ said she, ‘and we fattened it expressly for you.’ “‘Never mind.
It had ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere.
It must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.
Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage.
I hope that I have made myself clear?” “I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street.” “Precisely.” “Then you may entirely rely on me.” “That is excellent.
“Try the settee,” said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together, as was his custom when in judicial moods.
“But you would not advise me to refuse?” “I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for.” “What is the meaning of it all, Mr.
It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him.
Holmes; you have learned something!
My pence were duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you.
“You’ll have to go out.” I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.
How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a very plain tale.
“I daresay that if I had put £ 100 down in front of him, that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager.
It may be some time before I get back.
The matter passed, however, and my father entered into possession of the estate, and of some £ 14,000, which lay to his credit at the bank.” “One moment,” Holmes interposed, “your statement is, I foresee, one of the most remarkable to which I have ever listened.
He’s a remarkable man, is young John Clay.
Does that suggest anything?” “A greater distance to travel.” “But the letter had also a greater distance to come.” “Then I do not see the point.” “There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or men are is a sailing-ship.
I could see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a chill to my own heart.
If you don’t—it’s a fine, law-abiding country is England, and there’s always a policeman within hail.’ “Well, down they came to the west country, there was no shaking them off, and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.
There would be a noise like a pistol shot.
Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in ’Frisco.
“The man married a woman very much older than himself for her money,” said he, “and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long as she lived with them.
Ferguson remained outside, and the colonel ushered me in.
Hudson has been knocked up, she retorted upon me, and I on you.” “What is it, then—a fire?” “No; a client.
So and so, of Ballarat.” “It is wonderful!” I exclaimed.
“I feel it give a little,” said he; “but, though I am exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my time to break it.
I want the doctor’s advice and help, too.
What could that something be?
Holmes, which may have any bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question me upon any point which I do not make clear.” “On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid.” “I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be particularly so.
I have not come to stay,” said I.
He has died within ten seconds of being bitten.
Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter up.
‘A little French, a little German, music, and drawing—’ “‘Tut, tut!’ he cried.
Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey, but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon flagged.
“We must sit without light.
I told my pal what I had done, for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to.
Putting his hands into his pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.
Besides, it is the season of forgiveness.
In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he rose and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your dressing-room.
I have done nothing actionable from the first, but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal constraint.” “The law cannot, as you say, touch you,” said Holmes, unlocking and throwing open the door, “yet there never was a man who deserved punishment more.
No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard.” Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.
Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him.” There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring out at me.
I don’t wonder that you should take an interest in it.
A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I have known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage.
An ordinary man could not do it.
Every shade of colour they were—straw, lemon, orange, brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but, as Spaulding said, there were not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint.
This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie.” He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.
In a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes.
Nothing of the sort.’ “‘Then let me do so?’ “‘No, I forbid you.
“I do not quite follow,” he said.
He was a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was myself regular in my habits.
There is a date, you see, but no superscription except Leadenhall Street, which is rather vague.
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
Bankers’ safes had been forced before now, and why should not mine be?
I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.
What do you think of such a commission as that?’ “‘The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.’ “‘Precisely so.
Take a pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge that I have scored over you in your example.” He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid.
But I take it that it is more likely to be some crony of the landlady’s.” Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door.
I could tell you tales of cobbler’s wax which would disgust you with human nature.’ He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled.
It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work.
When an actor I had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been famous in the green-room for my skill.
Now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St.
“You will, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us.” “My dear madam,” said I, “I am an old campaigner, and if I were not I can very well see that no apology is needed.
what a blind fool I have been!
What do you think, Miss Holder?” “I confess that I still share my uncle’s perplexity.” “Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?” “He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt.” “Thank you.
A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.
He wished us to leave him alone.
“Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that time.” “They seem to have been of a most interesting character—dummy bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate.
But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?” Sherlock Holmes laughed.
At the time of the war he fought in Jackson’s army, and afterwards under Hood, where he rose to be a colonel.
They could only have come from the old man at my side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever, very thin, very wrinkled, bent with age, an opium pipe dangling down from between his knees, as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers.
A shock of orange hair, a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular contrast to the colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid the common crowd of mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by.
All my medical instincts rose up against that laugh.
“When you go out close the door, for there is a decided draught.” “I will go when I have had my say.
My morning’s work has not been wasted, since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort.
“Both you and the coroner have been at some pains,” said he, “to single out the very strongest points in the young man’s favour.
The devil knows best what he said, but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening.” “I cannot, and I will not, believe it!” cried the banker with an ashen face.
A broad wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin, and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip, so that three teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl.
Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night, though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now.” And Holmes’ fears came to be realised, for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the sinister German, or the morose Englishman.
He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer.
She was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs.
“You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives.
I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance.
The front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small bedroom, which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves.
You have been of material assistance to me.” “You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow.
His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind.
Merryweather, striking his stick upon the flags which lined the floor.
Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots.
I do not know what I could do without her.
Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that he will be back before evening.” “We have had the pleasure of making the Doctor’s acquaintance,” said Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred.
It seems, from what I gather, to be one of those simple cases which are so extremely difficult.” “That sounds a little paradoxical.” “But it is profoundly true.
I have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion.
But if you are found again, then all must come out.
Peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man, shocked at having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person in uniform rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham Court Road.
“What do you make of that, Watson?” “It’s a common enough lash.
If you would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you.” “I have a cab outside.” “Then pray send him home in it.
We used always to get what we wanted for ourselves.” “Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there.
A prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose, looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered.
I know that she will do it.
In the present instance I am forced to admit that the facts are, to the best of my belief, unique.” The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat.
“Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet.
There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which, when it was crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls, though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time.
I must wire to the King without delay.” We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.
“Why, it’s a dummy,” said he.
These are daring men, and though we shall take them at a disadvantage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.
Simon to me—seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also—but I managed to get away from her and soon overtook Frank.
When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach.
His nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase, and his mind was so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell unheeded upon his ears, or, at the most, only provoked a quick, impatient snarl in reply.
I am glad to see that Mrs.
Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouth man, with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink.
“Just look up the trains in Bradshaw,” said he, and turned back to his chemical studies.
I am saved!” The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.
There is the first volume of it in that press.
It is introspective, and I want to introspect.
“Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with a hard-headed British jury.” “_Nous verrons_,” answered Holmes calmly.
“You are fatigued with your haste.
My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival, and I was informed by the maid that he had driven over to Ross with John Cobb, the groom.
We should be rich men if we had £ 1000 for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den.
In an instant his strange headgear began to move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.
Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind.
She was plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face, freckled like a plover’s egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own way to make in the world.
He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure.
Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the least.
For many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information.
But there is, if you will excuse my saying so, something just a little funny about it.
Here is the note written in pencil over here.” “And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill, which interests me deeply.” “There’s nothing in it.
Her violet eyes shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks, all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern.
It was close upon four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes, walked into the room.
Seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.
“So much for the servants.
Here you are, Peterson, run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers.” “In which, sir?” “Oh, in the _Globe_, _Star_, _Pall Mall_, _St.
I have, as you know, devoted some attention to this, and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140 different varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco.
She is my niece; but when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter.
“I will tell you it just as it happened, sir,” said he.
A little over-precipitance may ruin all.” “And now?” I asked.
I took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the gum, the letter K three times repeated.
There he is, all safe and sound.
Merryweather, who is to be our companion in to-night’s adventure.” “We’re hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see,” said Jones in his consequential way.
Then he became a little more reasonable.
The shutters cut off the least ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.
Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion.” “I was mad—insane.” “You have compromised yourself seriously.” “I was only Crown Prince then.
“He didn’t mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at the time when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so.
It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle, save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red.
It is my belief, Watson, founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside.” “You horrify me!” “But the reason is very obvious.
“There are one or two very singular points about this room.
HOLMES,—I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess.
With a nod he vanished into the bedroom, whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable, as of old.
“Listen to this: ‘You will see me when all is ready.
Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry, and I have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots, as I have done before now.
Let’s have it straight, now.” “It is straight enough.
I think that was the chain of events, Mr.
Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in several places.
“What on earth can be the matter with him?” I asked.
Your right hand is quite a size larger than your left.
The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull.
“I told you that I would call.” He looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.
It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4½ per cent.
That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little exercise.
Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk rapidly out of the yard, though I was not aware in which direction he was going.
There is one remarkable point, however, which will no doubt strike you.” “They are typewritten,” I remarked.
Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or left the country, and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister result for C.
The man’s face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree.
I don’t know.” “Quite so!
There are no further particulars, and the whole case is in your hands now—so far as it has been set forth in the public press.” “And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be.
And now you see the deadly urgency of this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to caution.
He ran round, like a dog who is picking up a scent, and then turned upon my companion.
But our trap should be here.” He put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly—a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance, followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hoofs.
It is true that you have missed everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and you have a quick eye for colour.
Two thousand five hundred pounds was the amount, but I can only touch the interest.” “You interest me extremely,” said Holmes.
He mumbled several words, you understand, but that was all that caught the son’s ear.
I have a professional commission for you, but absolute secrecy is quite essential—absolute secrecy, you understand, and of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family.’ “‘If I promise to keep a secret,’ said I, ‘you may absolutely depend upon my doing so.’ “He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.
Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return.
It becomes a personal matter with me now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.
On the right side was a small wooden thicket, which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen’s entrance.
Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a suspicion.
My sister thinks that I am going mad.
“There is no possible getting out of it, Mr.
It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles.
“Your own little income,” he asked, “does it come out of the business?” “Oh, no, sir.
“What did you go into the pool for?” he asked.
“My name is Sherlock Holmes.
It is most refreshingly unusual.
Having done this, you must at once put the box out upon the sundial, as directed.
The rooms were carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime.
The roughs had also fled at the appearance of Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of battle, and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose.” “Which surely he restored to their owner?” “My dear fellow, there lies the problem.
John Horner, 26, plumber, was brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst., abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle.
“This fellow Merryweather is a bank director, and personally interested in the matter.
Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.
For my part, I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it.” He was a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert manner.
Windigate, of the Alpha, and by him to his club, of which Mr.
Pray tell me in what way I can reward you.
“This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed, made the inspector realise that the matter was serious.
“You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not, dad?” she asked.
Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very soul.
The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor.
Godfrey Norton, as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess.
I will read it to you, and in return you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter.
At nine o’clock Lestrade called for us with the carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.
It is evident, therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have had a mere pittance, while even one of them would cripple him to a very serious extent.
“Well, really!” he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.
“I suppose,” I remarked, “that, homely as it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to it—that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime.” “No, no.
There was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar.
The game-keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing Mr.
31 Lyon Place, Camberwell.” “Mr.
“The first thing that put us out was that advertisement.
“You will excuse my calling so late,” she began, and then, suddenly losing her self-control, she ran forward, threw her arms about my wife’s neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder.
As far as the church door he brought her, and then, as he could go no farther, he conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other.
“Was he in favour of such a union?” “No, he was averse to it also.
See what my wife found in its crop!” He held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand.
I know that he is right.
The others are Finns and Germans.
As it pulled up, one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with the same intention.
I believe that she is capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her.” “Have you her photograph?” “I brought this with me.” He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman.
I hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness.
It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and ran thus: “DEAR MR.
I know that James didn’t do it.
I wasn’t best pleased, Mr.
Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us.
“You have been cruelly used,” said Holmes.
It was only to-day that I spoke to Major Prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you.” “It is really two days since you had the letter.
Again I changed my dress, again I sat in the window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which my employer had an immense _répertoire_, and which he told inimitably.
Now, by the merest chance, his wife received a telegram upon this same Monday, very shortly after his departure, to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company.
Rucastle at once, sacrifice my poor hair to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow.” With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her way.
Left his lodgings at ten o’clock at night, and has not been heard of since.
Victor Hatherley, hydraulic engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor).” That was the name, style, and abode of my morning visitor.
But I hear the rumble of wheels.
“Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your own bird, so if you wish—” The man burst into a hearty laugh.
there has been an enclosure here!” “Yes, there was a ring.
You are a funny one,” chuckled the inspector.
He has not been home for two days.
‘Here are the very letters.
I had no idea that he was in front of me.
“Our quest is practically finished.
A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window.
When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club, and there, having charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits.
She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent, and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me, her eyes glancing back, like those of a frightened horse, into the gloom behind her.
Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it.
You will first make a note, Doctor, of the paper and the date.” “It is _The Morning Chronicle_ of April 27, 1890.
He was much excited, without either his gun or his hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood.
His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he stood there.
You know me too well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of employing, or even of understanding.
Cocksure,” said the salesman, “I thought that I was out of geese, but before I finish you’ll find that there is still one left in my shop.
The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now.
“You had my note?” “Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up.
“Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly, we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure.” “Well, I don’t know why not,” said the inspector.
Hardy, the foreman; but when Mr.
There was a moment’s delay, but the gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again, and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall.
The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor XI.
She left her room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for some time, chatting about her approaching wedding.
There was the end of this tangled clue.
It is terror.” She raised her veil as she spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless frightened eyes, like those of some hunted animal.
“It’s nothing of the kind.” “I say it is.” “I don’t believe it.” “D’you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them ever since I was a nipper?
I’ll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it.” “Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?” “I cannot tell.” “Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?” “It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold.
“It is simplicity itself,” said he; “my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts.
Have you a family?’ “I answered that I had not.
Here is something interesting!” The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed.
Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room.
It is the first Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my rubber.” “I think you will find,” said Sherlock Holmes, “that you will play for a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, and that the play will be more exciting.
Inspector Bradstreet would, I am sure, make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities.
“You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson,” said he, “but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning.” “Why, it is after nine now,” I answered.
“I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried,” said he.
“It—it’s not actionable,” he stammered.
Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was, such an offer seemed almost too good to be true.
Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man.
Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs.
“The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north, and Hampshire in the west.
I tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light.
He shot a questioning glance at each of us, placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair.
Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I thought it better not to disturb it.
Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands.
“‘I am afraid that that is quite impossible,’ said I.
“It is due at Winchester at 11:30.” “That will do very nicely.
There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house.
So Frank took my wedding-clothes and things and made a bundle of them, so that I should not be traced, and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them.
For half an hour I sat with straining ears.
“This is my friend, Dr.
“At the same time,” he remarked after a pause, during which he had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire, “you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself in, a fair proportion do not treat of crime, in its legal sense, at all.
He was an old friend of McCarthy’s, and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I have learned that he gave him Hatherley Farm rent free.” “Indeed!
A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickening into a grove at the highest point.
Of these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record, even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results.
“His conduct was certainly not very gracious.” “Ah, Watson,” said Holmes, smiling, “perhaps you would not be very gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and wedding, you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune.
As evening drew in, the storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney.
“The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe.
It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his lateness caused me no surprise.
Let me know your train.
And now, Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors’ Commons, where I hope to get some data which may help us in this matter.” It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his excursion.
I have seen young McCarthy.” “And what did you learn from him?” “Nothing.” “Could he throw no light?” “None at all.
However, I threw all fears to the winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off, having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue.
I could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away.
It will end in my being conveyed into the house.
He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper part of his face, extending down past the cheekbones, a black vizard mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand was still raised to it as he entered.
You see this other page in red ink?
Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream.
I hope that I may be back in a few hours.” He cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of bread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition.
I leave my estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to my brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to you.
Eventually, in the year 1869, the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.’ “You will observe,” said Holmes, laying down the volume, “that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers.
That left foot of yours with its inward twist is all over the place.
“Which key was used to open it?” he asked.
You said ten miles, I think, sir.” “It was an hour’s good drive.” “And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?” “They must have done so.
Hosmer Angel?” I held the little printed slip to the light.
I took the letters in in the morning, so there was no need for father to know.” “Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?” “Oh, yes, Mr.
Did you tell him?” “Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and that I should hear of Hosmer again.
He had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadow pass over his face as I spoke.
She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom.
“It’s a bonny thing,” said he.
“Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks.
We have still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?” “Ample.” “Then let us do so.
It is to that remark that she refers in this note: “‘MY DEAREST UNCLE,—I feel that I have brought trouble upon you, and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred.
Far from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London to inquire more deeply into it.” “This gentleman?” she asked, facing round to me.
And now I beg that you will lay before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter.” “Alas!” replied our visitor, “the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions depend so entirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to another, that even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a nervous woman.
Inspector Barton, who had charge of the case, made a very careful examination of the premises, but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter.
Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane.
“I am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine,” he remarked, and bowing in a stately, old-fashioned manner he departed.
In fact, in the whole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems, made his home there.
I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock.
Get out!” And no more words were needed.
I think it was before your time, Watson.
Both these witnesses depose that Mr.
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw?
This case, I presume, contains the coronet.
From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanging lip, and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.
Clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police.
They got £ 4700 for the goodwill and interest, which wasn’t near as much as father could have got if he had been alive.” I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and inconsequential narrative, but, on the contrary, he had listened with the greatest concentration of attention.
I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear.
“There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet.
I heard her voice downstairs, but I knew that she could not ascend.
My sister and I, you will recollect, were twins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied.
She has her freedom.” “What _can_ be the matter, then?
With a stout bearing, therefore, though her manner had shaken me more than I cared to confess, I still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where I was.
Wait in patience.—NEVILLE.’ Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book, octavo size, no water-mark.
She left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent.” “What!” Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and surprise.
When I remembered that you had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my conjecture became a certainty.
You did not see anyone else in the room?” “No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs.” “Quite so.
Some, however, have already gained publicity through the papers, and others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree, and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate.
“It may give him a sleepless night.
And now let us consider another point.
“Good heavens!” she cried, “he has followed me, then.” “So it appears.” “He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him.
You may safely trust him, for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief.
On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table.
He might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.
“When I hear you give your reasons,” I remarked, “the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I could easily do it myself, though at each successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process.
Chubb lock to the door.
“There is the gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay.
For the rest, there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle’s life in America.
And when he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers to her photograph, it is always under the honourable title of _the_ woman.
“Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and hereditary King of Bohemia.” “But you can understand,” said our strange visitor, sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, “you can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person.
“Then I must begin,” said he, “by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance.
Then I thought of the whistle.
You did not tell me that you intended to go into harness.” “Then, how do you know?” “I see it, I deduce it.
Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of the footpaths it still lay as white as when it fell.
Now, you must have some wine and water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it.
How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose into the open market?
With him we drove to the Hereford Arms where a room had already been engaged for us.
“He certainly needs a wash,” remarked Holmes.
I thought, at any rate, that I should call you and give you the chance.” “My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything.” I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional investigations, and in admiring the rapid deductions, as swift as intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him.
Some letters get more worn than others, and some wear only on one side.
My whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty.
We got into a cab together, and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting.
Pray proceed with your statement.” “I could not sleep that night.
This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens.
“When Horner had been arrested, it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once, for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room.
Clair had last been seen.
I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo.
It is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, a young and unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession.
You are too timid in drawing your inferences.” “Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?” He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him.
Filled with the most maddening doubts and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector, all on their way to their beat.
He brought up a card, too, with the name of ‘Colonel Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it.
The walls were of wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and when I came to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it.
“I wired to Bristol for it last night.” He put his hand over part of the map.
Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it.
It was not until close upon six o’clock that I found myself free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street, half afraid that I might be too late to assist at the _dénouement_ of the little mystery.
If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance.
With your permission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment.” Dr.
Now, what did you gather from that woman’s appearance?
I did not wonder at Lestrade’s opinion, and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young McCarthy’s innocence.
Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows.
Good has come out of evil, however, for the barmaid, finding from the papers that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrown him over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband already in the Bermuda Dockyard, so that there is really no tie between them.
His brain is as cunning as his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where to find the man himself.
As to reward, my profession is its own reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses I may be put to, at the time which suits you best.
“Here is the slip and here are four letters from him.” “Thank you.
But how—” “Was there a secret marriage?” “None.” “No legal papers or certificates?” “None.” “Then I fail to follow your Majesty.
Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb.
She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place.
It must have been this morning, or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger.
The method was no doubt suggested to Clay’s ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplice’s hair.
Even after I became suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind old clergyman.
Monica,’ said I, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’ It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.
Neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle.
What was that?” “I say that I have solved it.” “Where, then, is my wife?” “That is a detail which I shall speedily supply.” Lord St.
“This may interest you, Lestrade,” he remarked, holding it out.
It appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman, whose name has not been ascertained, who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party, alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St.
Too large for easy concealment about a woman’s dress.
Clair, I was arrested as his murderer.
From what you have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear.” “Grave enough!” said Mr.
Was there a police-station anywhere near?
Was it all to go for nothing?
The latter is always instructive.
For example, you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room.” “Frequently.” “How often?” “Well, some hundreds of times.” “Then how many are there?” “How many?
With my body in one easy-chair and my legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last, saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all aside and lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noble correspondent could be.
Simon (the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia Whittington.
“It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business.” “Dark enough and sinister enough.” “Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are sound, and that the door, window, and chimney are impassable, then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious end.” “What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?” “I cannot think.” “When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor, the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an interest in preventing his stepdaughter’s marriage, the dying allusion to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back into its place, I think that there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along those lines.” “But what, then, did the gipsies do?” “I cannot imagine.” “I see many objections to any such theory.” “And so do I.
THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES “To the man who loves art for its own sake,” remarked Sherlock Holmes, tossing aside the advertisement sheet of _The Daily Telegraph_, “it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived.
“Have you an order to see him in prison?” “Yes, but only for you and me.” “Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out.
The Boscombe Valley Mystery V.
“God knows I have!—a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason, so sudden and so terrible is it.
One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans, where the security is unimpeachable.
You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room, and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.’ “The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue.
I knew that it was my sister’s voice.
She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand.
Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when in high spirits.
His features were gravely set, but there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions.
Whoa, there, whoa!” We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds.
“I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl.
Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age.
As I was already in debt to my tradesmen, the advance was a great convenience, and yet there was something unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I quite committed myself.
Why should I attempt to conceal it?” “Why, indeed?” murmured Holmes.
“You will excuse me for not waiting for you,” said he; “I have, I foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young Openshaw’s.” “What steps will you take?” I asked.
Whom have I the honour to address?” “You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman.
I know that her word is inviolate.
“Holmes!” I whispered, “what on earth are you doing in this den?” “As low as you can,” he answered; “I have excellent ears.
“You had my note?” he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.
Holmes, but you understand that as long as I live at home I don’t wish to be a burden to them, and so they have the use of the money just while I am staying with them.
ceases to be the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society.” “But of what society?” “Have you never—” said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice—“have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?” “I never have.” Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee.
It must have been a very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was breaking when I came to myself.
I shall stand behind this crate, and do you conceal yourselves behind those.
I fear that you have felt the draught.’ “‘On the contrary,’ said I, ‘I opened the door myself because I felt the room to be a little close.’ “He shot one of his suspicious looks at me.
“I should wish to.” “Just look it up, then.” “There is a train at half-past nine,” said I, glancing over my Bradshaw.
He’d had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young, he told me, and it had left him with a weak throat, and a hesitating, whispering fashion of speech.
Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?” “Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one.
I’m not rich, but still I have a hundred a year in my own right, besides the little that I make by the machine, and I would give it all to know what has become of Mr.
It was instantly opened by a bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to step in.
I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair.
What do you mean?” “Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other.” Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion.
All was as we had seen it in the daytime.
I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver, who was this very man McCarthy.
A twitch brought away the tangled red hair, and there, sitting up in his bed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and smooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment.
The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms.
He would not go to the police, and he would not go to you, and so at last, as he would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done, it made me mad, and I just on with my things and came right away to you.” “Your father,” said Holmes, “your stepfather, surely, since the name is different.” “Yes, my stepfather.
It was a perfect day, with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens.
Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John Swain of St.
Never trust to general impressions, my boy, but concentrate yourself upon details.
It was mere chance that he was within earshot.
“Name the sum, and I will pay it.” “No, the debt is not to me.
Windibank—that is, my father—took it all.
The instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away.
A few seconds sufficed to satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his pocket.
The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within, and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor.
He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean—that’s all I have in the house, for I am a widower and never had any family.
Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right.’ “I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly.
James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then called and gave evidence as follows: ‘I had been away from home for three days at Bristol, and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday, the 3rd.
It is most important, all the same.
“You must not fear,” said he soothingly, bending forward and patting her forearm.
Whatever he wanted he must have, and whatever it was I gave him without question, land, money, houses, until at last he asked a thing which I could not give.
It seemed funny that I should ask his leave, as he was only a few years older than me; but I didn’t want to do anything on the sly, so I wrote to father at Bordeaux, where the company has its French offices, but the letter came back to me on the very morning of the wedding.” “It missed him, then?” “Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived.” “Ha!
This is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den, and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest.” “But a cripple!” said I.
Are you satisfied?” “Well, it is very ingenious,” said I, laughing; “but since, as you said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.” Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open, and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.
“Why, you are like a magician,” said she.
Can you not find the advertisement, Mr.
I have determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding.
“How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr.
He had made a very considerable fortune in the States, and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the franchise to them.
She is waiting now in the sitting-room.
And underneath?” “‘Sold to Mr.
Beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar, its silence broken only by the heavy, regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some belated party of revellers.
“Have you heard anything of the case?” he asked.
Presently he emerged, looking even more flurried than before.
Sherlock Holmes’ cases.” “I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gained through one of them,” I answered.
She is my right hand.
The sewing-machine, of the hand type, leaves a similar mark, but only on the left arm, and on the side of it farthest from the thumb, instead of being right across the broadest part, as this was.
As to what it was he feared, we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which were received by himself and his successors.
There is only one point on which I must insist.
With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.
You must lock yourself up from him to-night.
It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more.
The case would then never go into court at all.” “God bless you!” cried the prisoner passionately.
I fear that I bore you with these details, but I have to let you see my little difficulties, if you are to understand the situation.” “I am following you closely,” I answered.
He is dark, handsome, and dashing, never calls less than once a day, and often twice.
What danger do you foresee?” Holmes shook his head gravely.
In that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your young ladies.’ “The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal.
‘They will be here in a moment.
“This is the Dundas separation case, and, as it happens, I was engaged in clearing up some small points in connection with it.
I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George’s house, managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut his head the night before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings, made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes.
“God help me, I would not have them ashamed of their father.
Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have both seen and observed.
But he could not help me in any way.
If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none would be of a deep black shade.
“I think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross-questioning.
Between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water.
Let the matter drop and say no more.
Its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic but generally recognised shape—a sprig of oak-leaves in some parts, melon seeds or orange pips in others.
Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope’s Court looked like a coster’s orange barrow.
I feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters.” “Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van.
She sits in her own little office, and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one by one, when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them.
Its finder has carried it off, therefore, to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose, while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner.” “Did he not advertise?” “No.” “Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?” “Only as much as we can deduce.” “From his hat?” “Precisely.” “But you are joking.
It is a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my assistance in the case of the Irene Adler papers.” “And the ring?” I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
But why?’ “‘Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle.
My gross takings amount to £ 27 10_s_.
By an examination of the ground I gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecile Lestrade, as to the personality of the criminal.” “But how did you gain them?” “You know my method.
Was dressed in,’ etc., etc.
“I owe you an apology,” he said, raising his golden pince-nez to his eyes.
Oh, how simple it would all have been had I been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it.
He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart.
Rucastle and much less amiable.
On the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably animated.
Would she not have made an admirable queen?
Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying.
It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties.
Now where did you get them from?” To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.
“‘The sundial in the garden.
A camp-bed, a small wooden shelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an armchair beside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a round table, and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye.
Public disgrace I might have faced, although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.
A few country carts were stirring, bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.
My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month.
Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.’ He rose as he spoke.
“Your morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-monger and a tide-waiter.” “Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety,” he answered, smiling, “and the humbler are usually the more interesting.
Each daughter can claim an income of £ 250, in case of marriage.
She is a sunbeam in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.
Yet we have not a moment to lose.
The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with the same result.
“There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” said he.
You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar’s?” “It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it,” said he in a crackling voice.
I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it.
The inspector and two men accompanied her back, and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor, they made their way to the room in which Mr.
You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel.
Well, when once his case has been settled, he will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, you would agree with me that he needed it.” “I should like to see him very much.” “Would you?
It is your commonplace, featureless crimes which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify.
Still, of course, if you would like to draw out of the business, there is plenty of time to do so.’ “I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they would be to me.
You took me in completely.
“But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the left.” “Yes, that is it.” It was a widespread, comfortable-looking building, two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls.
In a word, I turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past.
I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser, and as such I had influence over him.
Hatherley’s thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness.
And on the morning of the wedding?” “She was as bright as possible—at least until after the ceremony.” “And did you observe any change in her then?” “Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp.
Do not dream of going, Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness, if only as a check to my own memory.” “Lord Robert St.
Well, I have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category.
The year ’87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest, of which I retain the records.
The puny plot of the story was so thin, however, when compared to the deep mystery through which we were groping, and I found my attention wander so continually from the action to the fact, that I at last flung it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the day.
They are all, as he remarks, very much against the son.” Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat.
“It may seem to point very straight to one thing, but if you shift your own point of view a little, you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different.
But I shall come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I should like to see the solution of so tangled a business.” “Very glad to see you.
That the writer was on board of a ship.” “Excellent.
But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results.
And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?
We have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to.
Therein lies my _métier_, and it is just possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before us.
You may go to any expense which you think necessary.
“Well, of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr.
‘We are in a civilised land here, and we can’t have tomfoolery of this kind.
Draw up a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over.” “A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine, Mr.
Duncan Ross was there to see that I got fairly to work.
That will just show you how fond he was of me, Mr.
The name was strange to him.
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it is to bring it home.
I shall want your help to-night.” “At what time?” “Ten will be early enough.” “I shall be at Baker Street at ten.” “Very well.
“One day—it was in March, 1883—a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonel’s plate.
Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity, every possible combination of events may be expected to take place, and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being criminal.
Holmes, sir,” said the police agent loftily.
He has been a disappointment to me, Mr.
Holmes.” “Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent.
One of the latter knocked off the man’s hat, on which he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging it over his head, smashed the shop window behind him.
“‘Tell me, Helen,’ said she, ‘have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?’ “‘Never,’ said I.
I distinctly saw his bare throat.” “Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?” “Never.” “Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?” “Never.” “Thank you, Mrs.
“He is a hard man,” she said, “and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength.” There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire.
I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives.
Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I got our stones at £ 1000 apiece.
There was a cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any moment.
Two days later—that is, on Wednesday last—there is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that the honeymoon would be passed at Lord Backwater’s place, near Petersfield.
I left the house a little after eight o’clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work.
He is not a bad fellow, though an absolute imbecile in his profession.
His slow, limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude, and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enormous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of character.
“Come with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow.” Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder.
“This is the envelope,” he continued.
“‘Do you promise, then?’ said he at last.
It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman.
“It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our depositors.
I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully.
“I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just been serving his time in Pentonville.
Holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds himself in a perplexing position.
The matter is a perfectly trivial one”—he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat—“but there are points in connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction.” I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were thick with the ice crystals.
It is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives.
I only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference.
What a strange idea!” “Well, look at this!” He took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it.
“Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you.
Merryweather is the chairman of directors, and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present.” “It is our French gold,” whispered the director.
It is this infernal St.
“Here?” “Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally.
It was a wild night.
I am not over-tender of heart, but I call it cruel.” “I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy,” said Holmes.
Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?” “No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough.
I think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all that he has suffered.” “But if he is innocent, who has done it?” “Ah!
Holmes, the money!” “Well, yes, of course the pay is good—too good.
How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?” “My dear Holmes,” said I, “this is too much.
What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?” “They considered that it might be caused by Arthur’s closing his bedroom door.” “A likely story!
But what was she to do?
I cannot tell where it came from—perhaps from the next room, perhaps from the lawn.
“The case is as plain as a pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes.
What was he doing there at all?
He said a few words to each candidate as he came up, and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would disqualify them.
“I had,” said he, “come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason from insufficient data.
Becher is an Englishman, and there isn’t a man in the parish who has a better-lined waistcoat.
And there is a little reward, I fancy.
It is well thought of!” “What do you mean?” He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.
You have lost nothing by them.” “No, sir.
Well, there is nothing very instructive in all this.
They have laid for five.” “Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in,” said he.
I have no idea what she meant.” “American slang is very expressive sometimes.
“It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business, but he was not of a business turn.
“Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was?
I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I retired to my room.
Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane.
The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged.
Your own opinion is, then, that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?” “Yes, sir.
Round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains.
He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad.” “Hum!” said Holmes, sinking back in deep thought.
“When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name of my client.
Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light shot out in our direction.
Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back.
Sherlock Holmes was a man, however, who, when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days, and even for a week, without rest, turning it over, rearranging his facts, looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient.
“Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!” he remarked, looking up in surprise.
He gives me hopes.” Lestrade shrugged his shoulders.
As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household.
“Six out and six back.
“The ideal reasoner,” he remarked, “would, when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings, deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it.
Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him.” “How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?” “Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it.
Westaway was the name of the founder of the business, but it is really managed by Miss Stoper.
“‘This is my secretary and manager,’ said the colonel.
Her prolonged absence having caused some comment, her father followed her, but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant, caught up an ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the passage.
I will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world.’ “‘You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried half-mad with grief and rage.
Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them down and began to admire the scenery.
This American had started from London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.
A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at the time, and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the sufferer.
His brows were drawn into two hard black lines, while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter.
“Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch some allusion to a rat.
Once only had I known him to fail, in the case of the King of Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I looked back to the weird business of the Sign of Four, and the extraordinary circumstances connected with the Study in Scarlet, I felt that it would be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel.
A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes, with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid, told me that he had spent his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him.
You must find your own ink, pens, and blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair.
There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.’ “‘Very good.’ “‘I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.’ “‘There is a drive, then?’ “‘Yes, our little place is quite out in the country.
He had always laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon himself.
I can see him now, with yellow, pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.
Your windows would be visible from there?” “Certainly.” “You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a headache, when your stepfather comes back.
Old Turner lived for seven months after our interview, but he is now dead; and there is every prospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their past.
In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment, in Dundee it was only some three or four days.
It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation.’ “‘Very likely.
At first, of course, he denied everything.
I have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind, for I have never met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature.
It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to see which.
With a boy’s curiosity I have peeped through the keyhole, but I was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such a room.
“‘Gone to the dealer’s, Jem.’ “‘Which dealer’s?’ “‘Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.’ “‘But was there another with a barred tail?’ I asked, ‘the same as the one I chose?’ “‘Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell them apart.’ “Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the lot at once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone.
Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning, dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last, having apparently given up his search, he had emerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings.
Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest terms.
Better make it out for £ 4000.” With a dazed face the banker made out the required check.
Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat.
“I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” he shouted.
The one unpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the appearance and conduct of the servants.
I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks, which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me.
I think that I could be of assistance to you.” “You?
He had set the engine at work.
You put me off, do you?” said our new visitor, taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop.
There cannot be any missing,’ said he.
As far as I can make out, the League was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways.
“This is where we shall find them.” “But the twelve-mile drive?” gasped Hatherley.
To the best of his belief, the father was actually in sight at the time, and the son was following him.
“It was from the reigning family of Holland, though the matter in which I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it even to you, who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little problems.” “And have you any on hand just now?” I asked with interest.
Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.
Just ring the bell and the maid will bring up your coffee.” As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it.
“It is always a joy to meet an American, Mr.
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement—how long had he been with you?” “About a month then.” “How did he come?” “In answer to an advertisement.” “Was he the only applicant?” “No, I had a dozen.” “Why did you pick him?” “Because he was handy and would come cheap.” “At half wages, in fact.” “Yes.” “What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?” “Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face, though he’s not short of thirty.
It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to go upon.
He was not a popular man, being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far as I know, no active enemies.
“It is a nice household,” he murmured.
There is a distinct element of danger.” “Can I be of assistance?” “Your presence might be invaluable.” “Then I shall certainly come.” “It is very kind of you.” “You speak of danger.
And what does she propose to do with the photograph?” “To ruin me.” “But how?” “I am about to be married.” “So I have heard.” “To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of Scandinavia.
It was nearly ten o’clock before he entered, looking pale and worn.
He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park.
I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in London.
The other clothes would have followed, but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair, and a few minutes after I found, rather, I confess, to my relief, that instead of being identified as Mr.
She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched.
James and I have always loved each other as brother and sister; but of course he is young and has seen very little of life yet, and—and—well, he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet.
And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of action.
Still, it is clear that she is not personally threatened.” “No.
And, above all, take care of yourself in the meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be a doubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger.
The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance.
And yet, what could have happened?
It cuts into glass as though it were putty.” “It’s more than a precious stone.
It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.’ “My face lengthened at this, Mr.
“Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?” he asked.
Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road—249,” read Holmes.
For example, how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?” For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.
Women are naturally secretive, and they like to do their own secreting.
I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves.
“From Hatherley Farmhouse to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a mile, and two people saw him as he passed over this ground.
Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over, with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids.
“We have been on a friendly footing for some years—I may say on a _very_ friendly footing.
Some friend of yours, perhaps?” “Except yourself I have none,” he answered.
“It is both, or none,” said he.
“They are never sold upon hats.
“But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you have placed before us—no suggestive detail which might help us?” “There is one thing,” said John Openshaw.
It was clear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease.
Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this.
He has one positive virtue.
My own complete happiness, and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature.
It was headed, “March, 1869,” and beneath were the following enigmatical notices: “4th.
I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was national property.
Having done that, we may drive back to our luncheon.
“Well, would you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?” “That is better,” said John Clay serenely.
You remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell Dr.
When?” “Yesterday.” “But to whom?” “To an English lawyer named Norton.” “But she could not love him.” “I am in hopes that she does.” “And why in hopes?” “Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance.
Draw your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings.” XI.
Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of Mr.
“He’s quicker at climbing down holes than I am.
I have no one to turn to—none, save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can be of little aid.
Oakshott here and I’ll answer her, but what have you to do with it?
We neither of us care for it.” “That is unusual in a young girl.” “She is of a quiet nature.
Just as I arrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes’ room.
I am a light sleeper, and it has awakened me.
Two hansoms were standing at the door, and as I entered the passage I heard the sound of voices from above.
And now, Watson, this is too serious for dawdling, especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if you are ready, we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo.
“I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter.” Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing.
Good-bye, and be brave, for if you will do what I have told you, you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you.” Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn.
“What do you think, Watson?
I was ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind.
My stepfather has offered no opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the spring.
“God help me!” he cried.
Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.
I came in by train this morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here.
For an hour or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever.
As I passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers.
Three of our boys were killed, however, before we got the swag.
The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop.
When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates, and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire.
Holder, I shall now continue my investigations outside.” He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult.
“Here is a very fashionable epistle,” I remarked as he entered.
I could see a change in my uncle, however.
“Look here, Watson,” he said when the cloth was cleared “just sit down in this chair and let me preach to you for a little.
He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.
“I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run, for I understood that I was far from being out of danger yet.
The Adventure of the Copper Beeches I.
I should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha.” “Well then, I shan’t tell you.
Horner, who had shown signs of intense emotion during the proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion and was carried out of court.” “Hum!
Simon, of course I’d have done my duty by him.
It is an old trick.” “That also I could fathom.” “Then they carried me in.
“Ah,” said he, “I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks.
It might be a lover; it might be a husband.
The Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
Ah, Watson, you have just come at the right time.
It is only fair to them to say that.
I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster.
Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the family, and in my stepfather’s case it had, I believe, been intensified by his long residence in the tropics.
His boots, too, might be told from their traces.” “Yes, they were peculiar boots.” “But his lameness?” “The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left.
For two streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot.
I have taken you fully into my confidence now, Mr.
“Yes, to-day.” She stood smiling, holding up a little slip of paper in the air.
It was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting.
George’s, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen intimate friends would be invited, and that the party would return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr.
Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts.
Now, for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us to-night, we need certainly to muster all our resources.
“On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill.
There has been no result.” “No sign of it?” “Absolutely none.” Holmes laughed.
“I suppose, Watson,” said he, “that you imagine that I have added opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other little weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views.” “I was certainly surprised to find you there.” “But not more so than I to find you.” “I came to find a friend.” “And I to find an enemy.” “An enemy?” “Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.
it’s a wicked world, and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all.
The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day.
I had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women.
But which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us.
So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side.
He was doing something in the cellar—something which took many hours a day for months on end.
But we shall have horrors enough before the night is over; for goodness’ sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more cheerful.” About nine o’clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all was dark in the direction of the Manor House.
After all, if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to pay for their eccentricity.
Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features, for he was running hard, with occasional little springs, such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs.
About two in the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in the house.
It is _the_ precious stone.” “Not the Countess of Morcar’s blue carbuncle!” I ejaculated.
At the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect.
We have a seven-mile drive before us.” “But I am all in the dark.” “Of course you are.
So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.
As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward.
Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.
How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet down.
As we rolled into Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape.
I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped.’ “‘You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer it.
It grew worse as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police.
“A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?
A groan of disappointment came up from below, and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.
“Pray continue your very interesting statement.” “There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table, behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine.
“You will excuse me,” said Holmes blandly, “but I could not help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now.
Simon,” said he “allow me to introduce you to Mr.
Holmes, especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is just before pay-day; so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings.
The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.
A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face, high-nosed and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth, and with the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed.
“Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at £ 2 a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, and sitting still.
This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house, showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time, while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the best of training.” “But his wife—you said that she had ceased to love him.” “This hat has not been brushed for weeks.
Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
He is a professional beggar, though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas.
Suddenly, with a plunge, as of the swimmer who leaves the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp clang of the bell.
No reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?’ “‘I have already given you my word.’ “‘Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door.
As to Mary Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there, again, I fail to see how you work it out.” He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.
Disregarding my presence, she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.
But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I understand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little good Berkshire beef would do him no harm.” The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire.
Where does the thing come from?’ “‘From Dundee,’ I answered, glancing at the postmark.
But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?
His cry brought back his son; but I had gained the cover of the wood, though I was forced to go back to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in my flight.
Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary Sutherland.
It seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone.” My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder.
Accustomed as I was to my friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises, I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he.
That represents the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I fancy.” “Good heavens!” cried my patient.
The lash, however, was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord.
“Let me see!” said Holmes.
Nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing stranger than the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr.
I never saw a more inexorable face in my life.” “Oh, we shall soon clear up all that,” said Bradstreet.
When I came to I found that it was still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig.” “Excellent!
Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.
He had returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent.
She passed down the stairs, and he, thrilling with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door, whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath.
There was never any mystery in the matter, though, as I said yesterday, some of the details are of interest.
I promise you that I shall not use it unless it is absolutely needed.” “It’s as well,” said the old man; “it’s a question whether I shall live to the Assizes, so it matters little to me, but I should wish to spare Alice the shock.
I should be compelled to stop the night.’ “‘Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.’ “‘That is very awkward.
Roylott entirely while we resided with him, with a provision that a certain annual sum should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage.
I wired to Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago, and as the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight.” “What will you do, then?” “Oh, I have my hand upon him.
That was last Friday, Mr.
‘There is water in your eyes,’ said he as he released me.
“What can I do for you, Mr.
Then they will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their work the longer time they will have for their escape.
The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could object.
Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves.
Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so.
The point about the signature is very suggestive—in fact, we may call it conclusive.” “Of what?” “My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?” “I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted.” “No, that was not the point.
All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down.” “I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase,” observed Mr.
Hudson to examine its crop.” I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more.
As I descended, my old ally, the guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.
What did you do, then?
When he reached my sister’s side she was unconscious, and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid from the village, all efforts were in vain, for she slowly sank and died without having recovered her consciousness.
I knew the firm for which this man worked.
“I have ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea.
‘_Omne ignotum pro magnifico_,’ you know, and my poor little reputation, such as it is, will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid.
He had been out with his serving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told the man that he must hurry, as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three.
But in any case it does not seem to be a nice household for a young lady.” “But the money, Mr.
Some, too, have baffled his analytical skill, and would be, as narratives, beginnings without an ending, while others have been but partially cleared up, and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him.
He drank more than ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of society.
“Be it so,” said he.
I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view, but without noting anything else of interest.
They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions.
“Well, it was the beginning of ’84 when my father came to live at Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until the January of ’85.
I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual.
I have no doubt that I am myself to blame.
It had escaped my memory.
Then he did the same with the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled.
On the other hand, a man should be at his very best and keenest for such nice work as that, and I did not wish to do it when fagged by a long journey.
A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds.
“After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay pipe, “I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies.
Bring him into the sitting-room.
The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes’ succinct description, but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected.
“And since you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year, with what you earn into the bargain, you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way.
Simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken place in connection with his wedding.
Leave Paddington by the 11:15.” “What do you say, dear?” said my wife, looking across at me.
I shall take your advice in every particular.” He shook hands with us and took his leave.
But I shall return by the twelve o’clock train, so as to be there in time for your coming.” “And you may expect us early in the afternoon.
“Missing,” it said, “on the morning of the fourteenth, a gentleman named Hosmer Angel.
We both sprang in, and away we dashed down the London Road.
The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward, while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians.
The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night’s adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers.
Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long narrative.
One of them held the horse’s head while the other led us in.
I left the breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.
There are grounds round it, woods on three sides, and on the fourth a field which slopes down to the Southampton high road, which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door.
We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence.
“I started from home before six, reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and came in by the first train to Waterloo.
I was shocked by the change which had come over him, for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter.
I have been at work upon it all day.” “And very wet it seems to have made you,” said Holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.
Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St.
“Inspector Bradstreet, sir.” “Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?” A tall, stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket.
I have a fairly long list at present.” “Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you.
I knew that none had fallen since the evening before, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions.
Holder,” said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.
A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin, fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird of prey.
And, first of all, we must choose our positions.
They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were compelled to open the window, and you had your chance.” “How did that help you?” “It was all-important.
On the other hand, I would not have given her the name which I have the honour to bear”—he gave a little stately cough—“had I not thought her to be at bottom a noble woman.
To me, with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy, there was something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold dank air of the vault.
I rushed across the bedroom, flung open the window, and looked out.
Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at the sight of the coronet and of Arthur’s face, she read the whole story and, with a scream, fell down senseless on the ground.
Then I walked across to the window, hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side, but an oak shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it.
Might I not escort her to this place?
Here we may take it that there is a love matter, but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed, or grieved.
I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?” “Experience,” said Holmes, laughing.
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?” The solemn Mr.
It is a good seven miles from Eyford Station.’ “‘Then we can hardly get there before midnight.
It is just possible, however, that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation.
I am convinced that the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents, as the jury stated, and were not to be connected with the warnings.” Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air.
But a human body is a different matter.
Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances.
Now, when young ladies wander about the metropolis at this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people up out of their beds, I presume that it is something very pressing which they have to communicate.
In the card-case is a note.
We were engaged after the first walk that we took.
It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open.” “This gentleman was not one of your wife’s friends?” “No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a common-looking person.
It seemed to me to be something grey in colour, a coat of some sort, or a plaid perhaps.
And your address had been given me.
Faces to the south, then, and quick march!” We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market.
“I was a little startled at the nature of the child’s amusement, but the father’s laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking.
We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph.
They were on the upper floor, and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of the inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House.
This is what began it all.
Ah, he’s breathing now.” “He can’t lie in the street.
It swelled up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek.
“I have spent the whole day,” said he, “over Lloyd’s registers and files of the old papers, following the future career of every vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in ’83.
A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows, for my father was a man of a very violent temper.
My evidence showed that the door had been fastened upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were secured every night.
There were six troopers and six of us, so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of their saddles at the first volley.
And so you won’t cut your hair?’ “‘No, sir, I really could not,’ I answered firmly.
Frank had been a prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped, came on to ’Frisco, found that I had given him up for dead and had gone to England, followed me there, and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding.” “I saw it in a paper,” explained the American.
THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET “Holmes,” said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down the street, “here is a madman coming along.
Have you followed me so far?” “It is very clear.” “If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs.
“No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom.” “But I am so sure that he is innocent.
Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?” Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man’s excited face.
He was wild, wayward, and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money.
And let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary.
An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that he should reach the ventilator.
One was buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five, and the other at the first, third, and fifth.
But you shall have it all just as it occurred.
I went and saw him.
I may add that his whole debts at the present moment, as far as we have been able to ascertain, amount to £ 88 10_s_., while he has £ 220 standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank.
It was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back.
Wilson, has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases, and I have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also.” The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat-encircled eyes.
She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way, with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned.
I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me.
I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son.
“‘That would suit me very well,’ said I.
He was too good and kind to leave me so.
It only remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face.
There he was, sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one.
I thought there might be some weapon or other trace.
John Turner,” cried the hotel waiter, opening the door of our sitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.
The lady, I think, you have already met.” At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity.
Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round to me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.
As regards your hair, it is no doubt a pity, especially as I could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview, but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon this point, and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss.
Then with a red head of hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in the business part of the city, ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar.
I will tell you, however.
“Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly,” said Holmes.
“I met him first at the gasfitters’ ball,” she said.
Now, on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open.
It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other, while the clergyman beamed on me in front.
Henry Baker, who was a member of your goose club.” “Ah!
There could be no doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it.
Roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran.
This is not such a populous neighbourhood.” Lestrade shrugged his shoulders.
“He is asleep,” said he.
There are small lateral columns of water outside which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you.
“Thank you for this information,” said he.
In the scuffle, your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye.
I ask you not merely because my friend Dr.
You must be weary, for you have had a long day.” “This is my friend, Dr.
Father was a plumber in the Tottenham Court Road, and he left a tidy business behind him, which mother carried on with Mr.
Windigate of the Alpha, at 12_s_.’” “What have you to say now?” Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.
It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river.” “But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.
You want to know what became of those geese?” “Yes, sir.” “Or rather, I fancy, of that goose.
I already feel it closing in upon me.
“Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?” “They always fill me with a certain horror.
Sherlock Holmes, “Very truly yours, “IRENE NORTON, _née_ ADLER.” “What a woman—oh, what a woman!” cried the King of Bohemia, when we had all three read this epistle.
“You are engaged,” said I; “perhaps I interrupt you.” “Not at all.
The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.
He took off his coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs.
Still, it did not go for very much, for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell.
See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant.
God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he.
I snatched it up and examined it.
But if your husband is alive and able to write letters, why should he remain away from you?” “I cannot imagine.
“How did you know, for example, that I did manual labour.
But the maiden herself was most instructive.” “You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to me,” I remarked.
It could not be delirium.
In each case, not only are the ‘e’s’ slurred and the ‘r’s’ tailless, but you will observe, if you care to use my magnifying lens, that the fourteen other characteristics to which I have alluded are there as well.” Mr.
Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine.’ “‘I had better put my hat on, I suppose.’ “‘Oh, no, it is in the house.’ “‘What, you dig fuller’s-earth in the house?’ “‘No, no.
Of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope.
One morning, at a little before seven o’clock, I was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room.
Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how it is that I have received a letter from him to-day.” Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.
“Yes,” he continued, glancing out of the window.
It ran, if I remember right, ‘sent the pips to A, B, and C’—that is, sent the society’s warning to them.
Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind, and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures.
“You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure,” said she, as my companion rose to greet her, “but I have had a very strange experience, and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask advice, I thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what I should do.” “Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter.
Was it to be in church?” “Yes, sir, but very quietly.
Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her sore need.
Then he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the high road, where all traces were lost.
As to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools.
What could it be, once more?
Male costume is nothing new to me.
It was from her that I had your address.
“‘Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?’ he asked with his eyes open.
“Some ten or twelve, but none which present any feature of interest.
THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases between the years ’82 and ’90, I am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave.
the speckled band!” whispered Holmes.
I wish she had been of my own station!
To be left till called for.” My friend tore it open, and we all three read it together.
Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows.
Great Lord of mercy!” The commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.
Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections.” “Here is the first notice which I can find.
“But if I am to go, I must pack at once, for I have only half an hour.” My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller.
Here is the first heading upon which I come.
“Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr.
I am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him.” “Not him.” “What then?” “The knees of his trousers.” “And what did you see?” “What I expected to see.” “Why did you beat the pavement?” “My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk.
He laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides.
To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case.” “I shall see you at Horsham, then?” “No, your secret lies in London.
It was a wonderfully silent house.
Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre.
I assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months.
She had gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband—the chances being in favour of the latter.” “And how in the world did you find them?” “It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know.
Windibank, that in every case there is some little slurring over of the ‘e,’ and a slight defect in the tail of the ‘r.’ There are fourteen other characteristics, but those are the more obvious.” “We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office, and no doubt it is a little worn,” our visitor answered, glancing keenly at Holmes with his bright little eyes.
I can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.
The case has, in some respects, been not entirely devoid of interest.” “I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning,” I remarked.
“Never was such a fellow for photography.
“He is a man who leads a sedentary life, goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged, has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days, and which he anoints with lime-cream.
He had nothing a few years ago.
I should not wish a smarter assistant, Mr.
He has a passion also for Indian animals, which are sent over to him by a correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon, which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master.
I think that the change would do you good, and you are always so interested in Mr.
During all the years that he lived at Horsham, I doubt if ever he set foot in the town.
Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.
I have heard of you before.
And, first, one or two questions, Mr.
And now, Doctor, we can do nothing until the answers to those letters come, so we may put our little problem upon the shelf for the interim.” I had had so many reasons to believe in my friend’s subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to fathom.
“I only wish that you could come with me, Watson, but I fear that it won’t do.
I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses, and received in exchange twopence, a glass of half-and-half, two fills of shag tobacco, and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler, to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested, but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to.” “And what of Irene Adler?” I asked.
Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker Street.’ That is clear and concise.” “Very.
“Yes, there are steps on the landing.
I’ll have the other, and I’ll take it now,’ said I.
But we have to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint.
He appeared to be in a great hurry, shouted to the cabman to wait, and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home.
We may take it, then, that she does not carry it about with her.” “Where, then?” “Her banker or her lawyer.
So there were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was one of them.” “And your father?” asked Holmes.
That bears out his story.
“Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next.
Its disappearance, however, was but momentary.
4th, rooms 8_s_., breakfast 2_s_.
In spite of its youth, it has already a sinister history.
“‘How would fifty guineas for a night’s work suit you?’ he asked.
I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing.
But then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and that the clothes might betray me.
Read it!” He tossed a crumpled letter across to me.
Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine.
He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son.
We had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked.” “Quite so.
You seem to have done the thing very completely.
I was conscious of a dull pain, my grip loosened, and I fell into the garden below.
“‘Ten to two.’ “Now a pawnbroker’s business is mostly done of an evening, Mr.
He had remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been called away.
From amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.
He wore rather baggy grey shepherd’s check trousers, a not over-clean black frock-coat, unbuttoned in the front, and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament.
I suppose there would be no chance of a train back.
I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend.
“Pray take a seat.” “I will do nothing of the kind.
I’m sure I beg pardon.
Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me?
Now, you remark in this note of yours, Mr.
It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.
capital!’ He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion.
Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over here again before evening.” It was obvious to me that my companion’s mind was now made up about the case, although what his conclusions were was more than I could even dimly imagine.
Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that it might be of some assistance.
One day he had met me, and fell into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what they stole.
It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it.
They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper.
You have come in by train this morning, I see.” “You know me, then?” “No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove.
I know some of them.
Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked pistol in my hand.
this, I suppose, is he.
Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning, and then, after a time, he did not come in at all.
“I think that this typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with me for six o’clock?” “Yes, sir.
But then, as I used to say to mother, a woman wants her own circle to begin with, and I had not got mine yet.” “But how about Mr.
Your life may depend upon your compliance.” “I assure you that I am in your hands.” “In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in your room.” Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.
Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid, lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe.
“The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico.
‘It is a little fancy of my wife’s, and ladies’ fancies, you know, madam, ladies’ fancies must be consulted.
What will he say when he returns?” “He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track.
And now I will make the thing clear to you; it has been a long time in the acting, but will not take me long to tell.
“If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?” “It is our task to find that out,” replied Holmes; “so now, if you please, Mr.
I could, of course, borrow so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself.
Just as he finished, however, we drove through two scattered villages, where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.
About sunset, however, their efforts were at last successful, and they subdued the flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twisted cylinders and iron piping, not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly.
It may have been taken from him.” “No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!” “Very well.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him, and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling.
You seem most fortunate in having an _employé_ who comes under the full market price.
Those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride.” “Before the what?” asked Holmes with a start.
Simon has no property of his own save the small estate of Birchmoor, it is obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to a British peeress.’” “Anything else?” asked Holmes, yawning.
Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt.
“I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty’s business to a more successful conclusion.” “On the contrary, my dear sir,” cried the King; “nothing could be more successful.
In the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there, an old briar pipe between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him, silent, motionless, with the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features.
Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and started for the Temple to see my husband.
It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in Auckland.
Sometimes I think that I am myself.
I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half asleep, with his long, thin form curled up in the recesses of his armchair.
I hardly noticed his appearance.
I determined to wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police.
Not more than is usual in my family.” “And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a _fait accompli_?” “I really have made no inquiries on the subject.” “Very naturally not.
Do you understand?” “Entirely.” “Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present.
Simon,” said Holmes, rising and bowing.
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.
“The fire looks very seasonable in this weather.
“What, then?” “It is fear, Mr.
Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?” “From what I have seen of the lady, she seems, indeed, to be on a very different level to your Majesty,” said Holmes coldly.
What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
My companion noiselessly closed the shutters, moved the lamp onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room.
These little problems help me to do so.” “And you are a benefactor of the race,” said I.
As to my own case, I am ready to give you any information which may assist you in forming an opinion.” “Thank you.
Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I was sure of it.
“Certainly, if you wish it.” “I thank your Majesty.
“My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading ‘Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge.’ Here is the account: “‘Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and a splash in the water.
“I confess that I have been as blind as a mole, but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all.” In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side.
I can make neither head nor tail of the business.” “Really!
It was sheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father, at their last interview, was goading him on to propose to Miss Turner.
You have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle, and, if you will excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures.” “Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me,” I observed.
You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?
But that is a mere detail.
He looked her over in his searching fashion, and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips together, to listen to her story.
A hundred and fifty guineas apiece.
If my hair would only change colour, here’s a nice little crib all ready for me to step into.’ “‘Why, what is it, then?’ I asked.
“None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of Arthur’s.
It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.
Clair’s story, he was known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband’s appearance at the window, he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime.
Then suddenly another sound became audible—a very gentle, soothing sound, like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle.
“How is that?” I asked when I had finished.
They say that away down in the village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the sleepers from their beds.
I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last, but I did not call at the house.
We are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.” “Subtle enough and horrible enough.
I have already arranged what is to occur.
“‘Well,’ said he, showing me the advertisement, ‘you can see for yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is the address where you should apply for particulars.
But really I think that we are wandering rather far from the point.” “Lady St.
Suddenly, amid all the hubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman.
Some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, but there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit.
I was just balancing whether I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street.
“Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force!
He laughed until he choked, and we got a knife and opened the goose.
“Then I’ll tell our story right away,” said the lady.
Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me.” “Pray tell us what has happened to you.” “I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr.
His silence appears to me to cut both ways.
By the way, Doctor, I shall want your co-operation.” “I shall be delighted.” “You don’t mind breaking the law?” “Not in the least.” “Nor running a chance of arrest?” “Not in a good cause.” “Oh, the cause is excellent!” “Then I am your man.” “I was sure that I might rely on you.” “But what is it you wish?” “When Mrs.
Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp, while Breckinridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his stall, was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.
Such are the true facts of the death of Dr.
Holmes, and I carried the bird all the way to Kilburn.
‘May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?’ “‘Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment.
One of the farms which he held, that of Hatherley, was let to Mr.
Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent, while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down, taking in every detail of the apartment.
After an hour or so, Mr.
There is a trap-door at the back of that building, near the corner of Paul’s Wharf, which could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights.” “What!
“If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up,” said he, “of course you can hardly avoid publicity.
When I was a youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.’ “He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what he said.
Baker with a sigh of relief.
Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and, plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter.
The light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver, but Holmes’ hunting crop came down on the man’s wrist, and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor.
It is probable that he will be away all day, and that there would be nothing to disturb you.
Most of his time he would spend in his room, with the door locked upon the inside, but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with a revolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraid of no man, and that he was not to be cooped up, like a sheep in a pen, by man or devil.
Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?’ “‘You have called me names enough,’ said he, ‘I will not stand it any longer.
“And I.” “You will excuse this mask,” continued our strange visitor.
I do not know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which she used.” Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.
There were meetings, and an engagement, which would finally secure the girl’s affections from turning towards anyone else.
I went down to the Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savannah.
What a queen she would have made!” He relapsed into a moody silence, which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.
She would often be lost in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face.
Holmes, for I thought that I was not to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right.
I fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs.” It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in, dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a very perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.
The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet XII.
The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for.
Having once made up my mind, you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof.
A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended hand, recalled Holmes’ surmise as to his habits.
We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up.
It is, as he said, beautifully situated, but it is not beautiful in itself, for it is a large square block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather.
“You will remember that I remarked the other day, just before we went into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination.” “A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting.” “You did, Doctor, but none the less you must come round to my view, for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right.
Who do you give your casting vote to?” “You are all wrong.” “But we can’t all be.” “Oh, yes, you can.
To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story.
However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached the little dim-lit station after eleven o’clock.
Having no mother, she had no one to advise her at such a crisis.” “It was a slight, sir, a public slight,” said Lord St.
Sherlock Holmes was pacing up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.
It had only lain there a few days.
“Irene Adler is married,” remarked Holmes.
I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my face, and became a piteous spectacle.
“You can see him very well.” We both put our eyes to the grating.
Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester.
I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been she, and that his marriage might have changed his whole life; but now, alas!
He had, as it appears, been returning from Fareham in the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him, and the chalk-pit unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of ‘death from accidental causes.’ Carefully as I examined every fact connected with his death, I was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder.
My father had a small factory at Coventry, which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling.
I had something else to think of.” “You did not overhear what they said?” “Lady St.
I glanced down at my hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then, for the first time, saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound.
You look at these scattered houses, and you are impressed by their beauty.
“Well,” said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once more to London, “it has been a pretty business for me!
“Indirectly it may be of value, you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence.” X.
Our cabs were dismissed, and, following the guidance of Mr.
Holmes, came round to us this evening, though how he found us is more than I can think, and he showed us very clearly and kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right, and that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret.
She came with an excellent character, however, and has always given me satisfaction.
It seemed strange talk for a wedding-morning, but what has happened since gives a meaning to it.” “Most certainly it does.
As you may observe, Mr.
He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a man who is weighed down with some great anxiety.
Even a wife’s eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise.
You will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to this floor.” He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks between the boards.
Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence.
The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheet of water some fifty yards across, is situated at the boundary between the Hatherley Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr.
Boots which extended halfway up his calves, and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur, completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance.
“‘My name,’ said he, ‘is Mr.
‘You have been recommended to me, Mr.
If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the matter, Lord St.
But among them was Sir George Burnwell.
‘A husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is half a column of print, but I know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me.
“The third on the right is his,” said the inspector.
One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly, as he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the Lascar, but this fault was soon remedied, and he was seized and searched, without anything being found which could incriminate him.
I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick.
I should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket.
Then I called at the offices round, but none of them seemed to know anything about it.
“I am ashamed of you, Holmes,” said Lestrade with dignity after a few minutes’ silence.
This press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish your advice upon the subject.
I did not know what to do.
Grimesby Roylott drive past, his huge form looming up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him.
The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr.
The thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the young lady’s mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to come.
I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever.
“By the way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from?
James Windibank wished Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel, and so uncertain as to his fate, that for ten years to come, at any rate, she would not listen to another man.
I shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room.
Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would see to anything that turned up.
“They have, however, allowed me a policeman, who may remain in the house with me.” “Has he come with you to-night?” “No.
“‘Well,’ said I, ‘you said you’d give me one for Christmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.’ “‘Oh,’ says she, ‘we’ve set yours aside for you—Jem’s bird, we call it.
I was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller’s-earth in one of my fields.
That is as much as I have been able to gather about the families.
His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will.
On the other hand, if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you, I do not know that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers.
“Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been.” III.
They drove away in different directions, and I went off to make my own arrangements.” “Which are?” “Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered, ringing the bell.
His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones.
There he was to be found, she was sure of it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane.
Come this way, if you please.” He led us down a passage, opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side.
Be one of them, and you will know all that there is to know.
You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?” “Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in.
No one could pass these shutters if they were bolted.
He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man about town.
Lestrade would have noted even so self-evident a thing as that.” “How on earth—” “My dear fellow, I know you well.
On the inspector of constabulary informing him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that he was not surprised to hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts.
Give him an arm back into his chair, Watson.
His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.
I inquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark.
She had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table.
Holmes refused to examine the third chamber, so we passed at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner was now sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate.
“Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as possible.
“Well, I have drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found.” “I think I could lay my finger on it,” said Holmes quietly.
And in practice again, I observe.
You must yourself have remarked how worn, wrinkled, and stained they were.
His eyes twinkled, and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks.
He is small for his age, with a head which is quite disproportionately large.
“Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness, the door of my room swung slowly open.
Would you give me an introduction to him?” “I’ll do better.
Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence, I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted.
The passage outside was empty.
Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of _The Times_ and smoking his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before, all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece.
“To determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned.
The possession of a grey garment was a third point which, granting the son’s statement to be correct, was a certainty.
There you must stay, or you lose your billet.’ “‘And the work?’ “‘Is to copy out the _Encyclopædia Britannica_.
He has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation.” “I am delighted to see you,” said she, pressing my hand warmly.
I hope that you have done what I asked you, Jones?” “I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door.” “Then we have stopped all the holes.
“That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem.” “It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,” I remarked.
It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume.
However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work.
“Pray give us the essential facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important.” The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze.
“This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no other traces of Mr.
It was in the summer of ’89, not long after my marriage, that the events occurred which I am now about to summarise.
“You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?” said he.
I will call at four o’clock in the afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that time, I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of paramount importance.
But will he see it?” “Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one.
“Not I.” “It is half-past ten now.” “Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring.” “It may turn out to be of more interest than you think.
Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
I have a confused memory, too, of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere.” “What I cannot understand,” said I, “is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden.
This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite dramatic, in fact.” “Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common.” “They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this.
Not a word of news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that Frank was really dead.
“The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you, and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?
He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands.
Here I had heard what he had heard, I had seen what he had seen, and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen, while to me the whole business was still confused and grotesque.
There were, it is true, some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve, but he pointed to his ring-finger, which had been cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from there, adding that he had been to the window not long before, and that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same source.
If the young lady has a brother or a friend, he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders.
We are faddy people, you know—faddy but kind-hearted.
Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much.
Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?” “I think it very unlikely.” “Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?” He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a bride’s wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water.
On following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the pool.
The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived.
“How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell.
Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw.
Under these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested, and a verdict of ‘wilful murder’ having been returned at the inquest on Tuesday, he was on Wednesday brought before the magistrates at Ross, who have referred the case to the next Assizes.
But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure.
“Who is on duty?” asked Holmes.
That is quite cleared up now—though, indeed, it was obvious from the first.
I read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column.
He was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence.
“When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me.
You know what woman’s instincts are.
Then something suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in his hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene.” “Is it possible?” gasped the banker.
Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration.
What are you going to do yourself?” “I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town.
A vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me.
On examining it, however, I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one, and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left—both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours.
I’ve had one or two little turns also with Mr.
She is what we call in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by any sort of traditions.
“It is so very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I should do.
“It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory.
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all father’s friends were to be there.
What do you deduce from it?” I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.
So long was he that Mr.
But, you know, I have been trained as an actress myself.
We are at present, Doctor—as no doubt you have divined—in the cellar of the City branch of one of the principal London banks.
But you see, sir, them’s not _our_ geese.” “Indeed!
However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self.” I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply.
Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat, cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him.
The thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door, pushing his way past her; but she threw her arms round him and tried to hold him back.
Then the fact that the two men were never together, but that the one always appeared when the other was away, was suggestive.
I can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumb-nails, or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace.
Holmes, do tell him that I know him to be innocent.” “I will, Miss Turner.” “I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if I leave him.
“Just one hint to you, Lestrade,” drawled Holmes before his rival vanished; “I will tell you the true solution of the matter.
More than once I have surprised her in tears.
A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence of the great financier.
On the other hand, the face and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me, and I could not think that his explanation of the fuller’s-earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I should tell anyone of my errand.
“They might be useful to me as relics of my adventure,” said he, “but beyond that I can hardly see what use the _disjecta membra_ of my late acquaintance are going to be to me.
He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his overcoat.
As we approached, the door flew open, and a little blonde woman stood in the opening, clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists.
My mistress told me that you were likely to call.
They were all engaged for the evening.” “I guessed as much.” “Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand.
“They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand.
I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building.
Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy, there were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice—that of Mr.
They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews, and knew all about him.
And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?
You see that we have been as good as our word.” Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy.
I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours, but I was always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock Holmes.
And yet you have seen.
Merryweather, the stake will be some £ 30,000; and for you, Jones, it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands.” “John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger.
I have it here and I will read it to you: “‘The Copper Beeches, near Winchester.
He drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words.
For a while he could not get his words out, but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason.
Windibank, turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.
I think that I may arrive at my facts most directly by questioning you.” “Pray do so.” “When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?” “In San Francisco, a year ago.” “You were travelling in the States?” “Yes.” “Did you become engaged then?” “No.” “But you were on a friendly footing?” “I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused.” “Her father is very rich?” “He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope.” “And how did he make his money?” “In mining.
There is no good for you to do.’ “‘But, madam,’ said I, ‘I have not yet done what I came for.
I fainted dead away, and I was very sick for months after.
Where were we going, and what were we to do?
But I am inclined to think neither.
“There is a friend of mine here, Mr.
I sprang from my bed, wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor.
“If you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o’clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you.” II.
“The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel?
I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.
There is a strong presumption that the person whom McCarthy expected to meet him at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia.” “What of the rat, then?” Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table.
Consider what is involved by your theory.
“Owe!” He caught up a pen.
Sherlock Holmes, I believe?” said she.
“‘Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?’ she asked.
The bride, who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption, had sat down to breakfast with the rest, when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room.
“We shall soon set matters right, I have no doubt.
“What is it?” “It’s quite too funny.
‘I was admiring your fuller’s-earth,’ said I; ‘I think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.’ “The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my speech.
They have now fled together.” “My Mary?
“‘Why, what on earth does this mean, John?’ he stammered.
It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity.
B.” were scrawled upon one side.
“There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor work,” he remarked, “so I think, Watson, that I must leave you to your papers for a little.” It was after five o’clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had no time to be lonely, for within an hour there arrived a confectioner’s man with a very large flat box.
Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room.
Absolutely no clue in them to Mr.
Do you feel equal to it?” “Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story.” “Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an instant.” I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to my wife, and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new acquaintance to Baker Street.
A stable-boy had run out to the horse’s head, and springing down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drive which led to the house.
Did you fasten all the windows?” “Yes.” “Were they all fastened this morning?” “Yes.” “You have a maid who has a sweetheart?
In that, however, I was in error.
This business at Coburg Square is serious.” “Why serious?” “A considerable crime is in contemplation.
“I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr.
He was, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness.
The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing the heavy iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of the Doctor’s voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him.
Are you a married man, Mr.
Doran’s house that morning.” “Ah, yes.
“Then I will.” Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but without result.
The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle VIII.
‘By the way, I was under the impression that I left this door shut just now.
I wish I knew how you reach your results.” “I reached this one,” said my friend, “by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag.
She is herself the very soul of delicacy.
No servant would stay with us, and for a long time we did all the work of the house.
There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe.
Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed beside him.
His face flushed and darkened.
Here, signed with her initials, is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their reach.” “Very good, Lestrade,” said Holmes, laughing.
Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember.
It is true that ‘For Mrs.
Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran.” “Indeed, Doctor,” said Holmes blandly.
Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door, which he opened for us.
“‘Where are they all, Maggie?’ I cried.
I rushed out, calling loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his dressing-gown.
I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future.
The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler, for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a rule, is the motive.
We are but preventing her from injuring another.
It is my business to know what other people don’t know.” “But you can know nothing of this?” “Excuse me, I know everything of it.
He sat at my side in silence all the time, and I was aware, more than once when I glanced in his direction, that he was looking at me with great intensity.
There were Sherlock Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard, a plain-clothes man, and myself.
You then—” Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion’s knees.
Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking.” She hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.
She was bound to have me in.
As to his dress, it was careful to the verge of foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters.
There was nothing else save the five dried pips.
“I shall jot down the facts.
You understand?” “I am to be neutral?” “To do nothing whatever.
“Oh, she has turned all the men’s heads down in that part.
The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness.
As he said, what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving me?
Well, Watson, we are, I fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains to be determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs.
“Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang.” “None at all,” said Holmes.
SIMON.’ “It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger,” remarked Holmes as he folded up the epistle.
We had walked several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie.
“I have seen those symptoms before,” said Holmes, throwing his cigarette into the fire.
When I came down, Mr.
“I regret that I have kept you waiting,” said I, sitting down in my library-chair.
I sent John, the coachman, to watch you, ran upstairs, got into my walking clothes, as I call them, and came down just as you departed.
I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room, and I am inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has, perhaps, fluttered out from among the others, and in that way has escaped destruction.
Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other lovers by making love himself.” “It was only a joke at first,” groaned our visitor.
How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?” “Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough,” observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.
“Now, Watson,” said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the gloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns.
Is the security sufficient?’ “‘Ample.’ “‘You understand, Mr.
I had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here.
His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him.
‘I could not bear the disgrace.
I don’t think I ever drove faster, but the others were there before us.
“This went on day after day, Mr.
Let me out!’ “And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth.
Supposing that this unhappy young man’s story were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by his screams, he rushed into the glade?
“If you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know when you have done it.” “Certainly,” said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in the door.
I can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered my position when, however, it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door.
McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither of them had wives living.
Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall.
On the one hand, of course, I was glad, for the fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price upon my own services, and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones.
In the surgeon’s deposition it was stated that the posterior third of the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon.
Oh, if you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper!
The ceremony, as shortly announced in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the previous morning; but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about.
He had turned his back so that none could see him but I.
“‘We are now,’ said he, ‘actually within the hydraulic press, and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on.
I braved him to do his worst.
Because he limped—he was lame.” “But his left-handedness.” “You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest.
Then he struck gold, invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds.” “Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady’s—your wife’s character?” The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire.
He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him.
Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister.” “One moment,” said Holmes, “are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound?
“‘Oh, any old key will fit that bureau.
“Oh, it won’t do—really it won’t,” said Holmes suavely.
In the first place, we may start with a strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving America.
You may know the strict principles of her family.
Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary clothes on?” “But without his collar or tie.
Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a lighthouse.
On the inside of the flap he wrote “S.
He waved his hands.” “But it might have been a cry of surprise.
I think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our web to weave, while theirs is already woven.
It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea of the facts, I must go back to the commencement of the affair.
Lestrade of Scotland Yard.” “You were not yourself at fault at all, then?” “From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.
I think, Watson, that if we drive to Baker Street we shall just be in time for breakfast.” VII.
I heard from Major Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.” “Ah, of course.
“And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study, Mr.
The Adventure of the Engineer’s Thumb X.
Then suddenly he plunged forward, wrung my hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success.
I started when I saw the name, for it was that of none other than—well, perhaps even to you I had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth—one of the highest, noblest, most exalted names in England.
Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round his head.
The first consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens you.
You must get home instantly and act.” “What shall I do?” “There is but one thing to do.
You have worked with it, and the muscles are more developed.” “Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?” “I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that, especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin.” “Ah, of course, I forgot that.
“That hurts my pride, Watson,” he said at last.
No one else, I think.” “Do you go out much in society?” “Arthur does.
“‘Well,’ said I, ‘the gentleman at No.
Have you good authority for what you say?” “The best possible.” Lord St.
For that matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that radius, so the place might not be so secluded, after all.
“The question for us now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other.
I began to laugh at this, but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of his face.
“It is a most mysterious business.” “As a rule,” said Holmes, “the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be.
I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man.
Well, Watson, we shall see who will win in the long run.
It ran in this way: “Mr.
I sent the housemaid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once.
It may be so in this case, also.” “Well, let us hope so.
The cabman said that he could not imagine what had become of him, for he had seen him get in with his own eyes.
“What can he hope to find there?
He lay back without wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.
Yet I have a vague impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the ground to the left of me.
A girl of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking flowers.
They spoke of those hours of burrowing.
“I suppose you know all about it,” he snarled.
In this I was asked to sit, and then Mr.
So perfect was the organisation of the society, and so systematic its methods, that there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the perpetrators.
Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured to sound him upon the point, but he always glided away to some other topic, until at last I gave it over in despair.
Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the only daughter of Aloysius Doran.
“Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, which he unlocked.
Now, let me just run over the course of events, and you will contradict me if I go wrong.” The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his head sunk upon his breast, like one who is utterly crushed.
That and a tooth-brush are, I think, all that we need.” At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead, where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes.
It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand, which she held above her head, pushing her face forward and peering at us.
The envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day, or rather of the day before, for it was considerably after midnight.
He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown, a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at hand.
When the inspector and a constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood sullenly with his arms folded, asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft.
It proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name, as it appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose residence is near Horsham.
Pray proceed.” “When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at my request, made a careful examination of the attic, which had been always locked up.
Then he closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St.
Could I not snap the bond?
Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook.
I had been warned against you months ago.
When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of “Cooee!” which was a usual signal between my father and myself.
“Done about the same time as the bell-rope?” remarked Holmes.
McCarthy the elder using very strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father.
Unless they are quite new, no two of them write exactly alike.
If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter.
Out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could be discovered, and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by swimming, for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy.
“‘In the case of another,’ said he, ‘the objection might be fatal, but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours.
By the way, about the bird, we were compelled to eat it.” “To eat it!” Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.
It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller’s-earth was the merest fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose.
Perhaps I had better take a look at the lower windows before I go up.” He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane.
My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.
And now let us talk about George Meredith, if you please, and we shall leave all minor matters until to-morrow.” There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke bright and cloudless.
That carries us right on to the other block.
‘I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at 11:15.’ “‘I shall certainly be there.’ “‘And not a word to a soul.’ He looked at me with a last long, questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank grasp, he hurried from the room.
I have the honour to wish you a very good morning.” He bowed, and, turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him, he set off in my company for his chambers.
“We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued by so formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when you call to-morrow.
As you observe, this woman had plush upon her sleeves, which is a most useful material for showing traces.
In life or in death, I am ever your loving, “‘MARY.’ “What could she mean by that note, Mr.
“No, no; the real name,” said Holmes sweetly.
Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the country.
The Man with the Twisted Lip VII.
I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it, but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faint among the rose-bushes.
I expect that within an hour matters will come to a head.
Any injury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss, for there are no beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to replace them.
He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered, very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring disposition.
I tried to puzzle it out, but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation.
You may walk to the cab, and I shall be with you presently.” It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into Ross, Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up in the wood.
Then I started to go round the house to see that all was secure—a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I thought it well to perform myself that night.
Moulton, an American gentleman, had left only the day before, and on looking over the entries against him, I came upon the very items which I had seen in the duplicate bill.
He was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position.
Though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb, I knew that my own fate was sealed.
a murderous attack?” “Very murderous indeed.” “You horrify me.” I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages.
“Stop it!” I cried; “pull yourself together!” and I poured out some water from a caraffe.
She will not be up, so that we shall have a clear field.
Light a cigar and let me expound.” “Pray do so.” “Well, now, in considering this case there are two points about young McCarthy’s narrative which struck us both instantly, although they impressed me in his favour and you against him.
Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague.
If you leave, you forfeit your whole position forever.
Describe it.” “Well, she had a slate-coloured, broad-brimmed straw hat, with a feather of a brickish red.
I know that all is well with him.
Look at the neat little ‘Hosmer Angel’ at the bottom.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.
“There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called Westaway’s, and there I used to call about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me.
“The paper was made in Bohemia,” I said.
Where are the jewels which you have stolen?’ “‘Stolen!’ he cried.
The swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was never so truly formidable as when, for days on end, he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions.
You will leave the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given you.
I suppose that you have been watching the habits, and perhaps the house, of Miss Irene Adler.” “Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual.
If we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer things which are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events, working through generations, and leading to the most _outré_ results, it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable.” “And yet I am not convinced of it,” I answered.
In that way I didn’t know much of what was going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news.
Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known.” “He knows it already.
He made a slight motion to me to approach him, and instantly, as he turned his face half round to the company once more, subsided into a doddering, loose-lipped senility.
I had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room.” “My dear Holmes!” “I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I remarked before, which were quite as prompt.
If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves.
Their papers they mean to have, be the holder of them who it may.
You say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in.
We shall now have a little supper and then retire, for we may have a very busy day to-morrow.” A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary after my night of adventure.
I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow.
And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you did not hear it also.’ “‘Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.’ “‘Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.’ She smiled back at me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the lock.” “Indeed,” said Holmes.
The husband was a teetotaler, there was no other woman, and the conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife, which, you will allow, is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the average story-teller.
“My messenger reached you, then?” asked Holmes.
It would break her heart—it will break her heart when she hears that I am arrested.” “It may not come to that,” said Holmes.
Oakshott for it.” “She told me to ask you.” “Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care.
Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.
He spoke in a slow staccato fashion, choosing his words with care, and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.
Simon,” announced our page-boy, throwing open the door.
Then he walked slowly up the street, and then down again to the corner, still looking keenly at the houses.
The writing is undoubtedly my uncle’s.” Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper, which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book.
It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence.
They put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, the other rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week.
“Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint?
Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and moving my chair a little sideways, that my own shadow might not fall upon the page, he begged me to read aloud to him.
She had small round, hanging gold earrings, and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in a vulgar, comfortable, easy-going way.” Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.
When I see you, my dear Watson, with a week’s accumulation of dust upon your hat, and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’s affection.” “But he might be a bachelor.” “Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife.
If she does not love your Majesty, there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majesty’s plan.” “It is true.
A search was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could be found, nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats.
“‘Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work is slight, and it need not interfere very much with one’s other occupations.’ “Well, you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears, for the business has not been over good for some years, and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy.
“This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your sister’s, and the one next to the main building to Dr.
“It gave the name and the church but not where the lady lived.” “Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all for openness, but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I should like to vanish away and never see any of them again—just sending a line to Pa, perhaps, to show him that I was alive.
By the way, since you are interested in these little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences, you may be interested in this.” He threw over a sheet of thick, pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open upon the table.
SHERLOCK HOLMES,—Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion.
Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses, bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads thrown back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark, lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer.
For Christ’s sake, don’t!” “Get back into your chair!” said Holmes sternly.
Now, then: ‘Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat.
“Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr.
They were a gang, and a rough one, too.
“‘You are looking for a situation, miss?’ he asked.
Pray continue your most interesting statement.” “Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour.
No doubt you will go to the prison to see James.
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
“If I claim full justice for my art, it is because it is an impersonal thing—a thing beyond myself.
Now, Robert, you have heard it all, and I am very sorry if I have given you pain, and I hope that you do not think very meanly of me.” Lord St.
Yes, 17 King Edward Street, near St.
Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.
My dear wife knew that I had business in the City.
“It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under his breath.
One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another.
Henry Baker, I believe,” said he, rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily assume.
Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day.
At the church door, however, they separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house.
It is a cold night, and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter.
If not, why should you come to consult me?” “I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs.
“I should not dream of trying,” said he.
“I have given you the chance.
This stone is not yet twenty years old.
You should have been a surgeon.” “It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own province.” “This has been done,” said I, examining the wound, “by a very heavy and sharp instrument.” “A thing like a cleaver,” said he.
I am going through the City first, and we can have some lunch on the way.
Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels.
And now, Doctor, we’ve done our work, so it’s time we had some play.
I was already a dying and a desperate man.
Must I call you a liar as well as a thief?
Twice she has been waylaid.
The country roads seem to be not very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and jolted terribly.
They did not know how to look.” “But how will you look?” “I will not look.” “What then?” “I will get her to show me.” “But she will refuse.” “She will not be able to.
Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I daresay.
Might I beg that you will break it off.” The banker recoiled in horror.
Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.
“It is no wonder that it did not wake you.
Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but each time she has refused him.
He thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred.
At present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon European history.” “I promise,” said Holmes.
I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground.
“The man who wrote it was presumably well to do,” I remarked, endeavouring to imitate my companion’s processes.
It has been considered artistic.
Twice he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible.
I looked at it before,” said Lestrade.
With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks.” “I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,” said Mr.
Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?” “I cannot say that I have.” “The lady could not move her bed.
Then there is no more to be done in the matter.
If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger—” “Danger!
Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother.
But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what their object was in playing this prank—if it was a prank—upon me.
“Nothing.” “Nothing?” “To tell the truth”—he sank his face into his thin, white hands—“I have felt helpless.
‘I know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master’s affairs.
“Oh, yes, I am not joking,” he continued, seeing my look of incredulity.
Oakshott to-night, or whether we should reserve it for to-morrow.
“I can quite understand your thinking so,” I said.
There must be some strong reason behind.” “I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand afterwards if I wanted your help.
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?” “It is possible.” “And you thought he was pulled back?” “He disappeared so suddenly.” “He might have leaped back.
I think that I must turn to you Watson, for something more solid.” “I have very little difficulty in finding what I want,” said I, “for the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as remarkable.
Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered.
October 9, 1890.” Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it, until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter.
Holmes, that you have already made up your mind,” said Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion’s sleeve.
Clair has entered it never to leave it more.
I thought it as well to have Jones with us also.
But this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to prevent?
I deserve to be kicked from here to Charing Cross.
The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the Assizes.
‘For the love of Heaven!’ she whispered, ‘get away from here before it is too late!’ “But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way.
This he unpacked with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him, and presently, to my very great astonishment, a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble lodging-house mahogany.
For the rest, it was cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places, although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.
But to-day being Saturday rather complicates matters.
“They must be cunning devils,” he exclaimed at last.
Have the goodness, also, when you address me always to say ‘sir’ and ‘please.’” “All right,” said Jones with a stare and a snigger.
It is unthinkable.” “And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?” “No.” “And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?” “Very much so.” “Was the window open?” “Yes.” “Then he might have called to you?” “He might.” “He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?” “Yes.” “A call for help, you thought?” “Yes.
He will be here in an hour.” “Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon the subject.
The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however, gave it a stricken look, as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it.
This incident gives zest to our investigation, however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her.
She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened fowls for the market.
Step into my room here.” It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table, and a telephone projecting from the wall.
Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and a note for me lay upon the hall table.
And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman.
These articles, with two small wicker-work chairs, made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre.
In the last century, however, four successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency.
The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the other side.
I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea.
I should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement.
We should have acted before this.
The self-reproach and contrition which are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than of a guilty one.” I shook my head.
He said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all the other clerks about having letters from a lady, so I offered to typewrite them, like he did his, but he wouldn’t have that, for he said that when I wrote them they seemed to come from me, but when they were typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us.
I have come _incognito_ from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.” “Then, pray consult,” said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.
Stoner, the young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery.
“I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr.
“Now, then, mister,” said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo, “what are you driving at?
One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.
I am but thirty now.” “It must be recovered.” “We have tried and failed.” “Your Majesty must pay.
I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly.” “Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?” “Who knows?
It was no wonder that no one was stirring.
I dropped my gun and held him in my arms, but he almost instantly expired.
What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?” I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully.
The most lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talked together in a strange, low, monotonous voice, their conversation coming in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour.
‘I perceive that all is as it should be.
It was a delicate point, and it widened the field of my inquiry.
Then he took down from the rack the old and oily clay pipe, which was to him as a counsellor, and, having lit it, he leaned back in his chair, with the thick blue cloud-wreaths spinning up from him, and a look of infinite languor in his face.
If you will wait outside, I shall be with you in five minutes.” It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes’ requests, for they were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery.
“‘Yes, I promise.’ “‘Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after?
Yet this emaciation seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured.
When he told us of a man in a pew, of the change in the bride’s manner, of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping—which in miners’ parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to—the whole situation became absolutely clear.
It laid an egg after it was dead—the bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen.
The furniture was scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.
There was no sign of any violence, and the water was but two feet deep, so that the jury, having regard to his known eccentricity, brought in a verdict of ‘suicide.’ But I, who knew how he winced from the very thought of death, had much ado to persuade myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it.
I will sit on the side of the bed, and you in that chair.” I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.
I had not gone more than 150 yards, however, when I heard a hideous outcry behind me, which caused me to run back again.
“What do you make of that?” asked Holmes.
Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour.
Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors’ quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street.
The latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices, one answering the other from the floor on which we were and from the one beneath.
Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my story.” “I am glad of all details,” remarked my friend, “whether they seem to you to be relevant or not.” “I shall try not to miss anything of importance.
“You see it, Watson?” he yelled.
Sir, I can stand this strain no longer; I shall go mad if it continues.
This terrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War, and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the country, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida.
“You did it very nicely, Doctor,” he remarked.
The ‘G’ with the small ‘t’ stands for ‘Gesellschaft,’ which is the German for ‘Company.’ It is a customary contraction like our ‘Co.’ ‘P,’ of course, stands for ‘Papier.’ Now for the ‘Eg.’ Let us glance at our Continental Gazetteer.” He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves.
“There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week.
Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack.
Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat.
We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets until we emerged into Farrington Street.
But how on earth—” “Oh, tut, tut!
The panel had closed again behind me, but the crash of the lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal, told me how narrow had been my escape.
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son to Turner’s daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow?
One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the pool, and that the someone could not have been his son, for his son was away, and he did not know when he would return.
Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a very injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones.
“It was in January, ’85, that my poor father met his end, and two years and eight months have elapsed since then.
“In the bathroom,” he answered.
My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent education.
“But have you told me all?” “Yes, all.” “Miss Roylott, you have not.
I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly, it seemed safer to wait.
Your wedding was arranged, then, for the Friday.
The Five Orange Pips VI.
I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose.” “Certainly, sir,” said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm.
“My God!” I whispered; “did you see it?” Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.
I have never denied him a wish.
I hurled it out of the window, and it disappeared into the Thames.
Come on, my boy, and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock.” We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the bright morning sunshine.
He was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards.” “He said that you could solve anything.” “He said too much.” “That you are never beaten.” “I have been beaten four times—three times by men, and once by a woman.” “But what is that compared with the number of your successes?” “It is true that I have been generally successful.” “Then you may be so with me.” “I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with some details as to your case.” “It is no ordinary one.” “None of those which come to me are.
I am sure you could never guess how I employed my morning, or what I ended by doing.” “I can’t imagine.
So long, then!” He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through the endless succession of sombre and deserted streets, which widened gradually, until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge, with the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us.
it is too late—forever too late!
At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three gems had been torn away.
Circumstantial evidence is occasionally very convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, to quote Thoreau’s example.” “But I have heard all that you have heard.” “Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me so well.
Henry Baker is a member.” “Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,” cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers.
All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind.
As I passed out through the wicket gate, however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side.
“You must know that my grandfather had two sons—my uncle Elias and my father Joseph.
Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge.
The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so that there were fewer passengers than usual.
She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner.
Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him.
I have heard of you, Mr.
“You see it?” But I saw nothing.
It was not a photograph but an ivory miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth.
A shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.
“Besides, we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to Mr.
The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch.
James’s Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down.
He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.
You suppose that your son came down from his bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your bureau, took out your coronet, broke off by main force a small portion of it, went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of the thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered.
I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the Boscombe Pool, with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which is upon the other side.
Your duties, as far as the child is concerned, are very light.
“‘Very well,’ said he, ‘you shall know all about the machine.’ He took a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the lock.
He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes.
This is no time for despair.” “I have seen the police.” “Ah!” “But they listened to my story with a smile.
“Oscillation upon the pavement always means an _affaire de cœur_.
you have seen inside, then?” “Only once, some years ago.
6_d_., cocktail 1_s_., lunch 2_s_.
The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge.
It was a curious way of managing it, but, really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.
George’s, was much addicted to opium.
My God, what shall I do!
Men at his time of life do not change all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the lonely life of an English provincial town.
Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement, and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice, little birds, and insects.
Apply in person on Monday, at eleven o’clock, to Duncan Ross, at the offices of the League, 7 Pope’s Court, Fleet Street.” “What on earth does this mean?” I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.
you find it so?” “Extremely so.
I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church.
We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of France.
We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.
It was twenty-five minutes past four.
That is just my point.
Hosmer came for us in a hansom, but as there were two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler, which happened to be the only other cab in the street.
We must have a look at it.” He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table.
Neville St.— Oh, come, you can’t be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it,” said the inspector with a grin.
But here she comes in person to resolve our doubts.” As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and the boy in buttons entered to announce Miss Mary Sutherland, while the lady herself loomed behind his small black figure like a full-sailed merchant-man behind a tiny pilot boat.
“Your conversation is most entertaining,” said he.
I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it.
Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon was shining brightly.
“There is one other thing you owe, Mr.
Now, if you are well up in your London, you will know that the office of the company is in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam Lane, where you found me to-night.
“I had hoped,” suggested Holmes, “that you would have joined us in a friendly supper.” “I think that there you ask a little too much,” responded his Lordship.
“Excuse me,” he said, “but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public manner.” “Then you won’t forgive me?
Not even your skill can inform me where she is now.” “I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes, “that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is.
The name is no doubt familiar to you.” “Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor,” murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.
“Well?” she cried, “well?” And then, seeing that there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
The habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freak when he was at college; for having read De Quincey’s description of his dreams and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects.
Out of the black shadows there glimmered little red circles of light, now bright, now faint, as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes.
Catherine Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder’s cry of dismay on discovering the robbery, and to having rushed into the room, where she found matters as described by the last witness.
Then, again, the introduction of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it.
Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience.
But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?” “Why, indeed?
You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count Von Kramm.” “Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress.” “Pray do so.
Obviously something had occurred during the morning, then, to cause her to change her mind.
On the other hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self-respect.” “Your reasoning is certainly plausible.” “The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is grizzled, that it has been recently cut, and that he uses lime-cream, are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining.
It is equally certain, too, that whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment.” XII.
As the daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her father’s young wife.
It must, then, be something out of the house.
I confess that I cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties.” While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of events, we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us.
The richer Pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last Pa wouldn’t hear of our engagement lasting any longer, and he took me away to ’Frisco.
Why should they give you £ 120 a year, when they could have their pick for £ 40?
And you have no doubt that it is your husband’s hand, madam?” “None.
He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age.
To Holmes, as I could see by his eager face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass.
“I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden.
We waited long for news of the _Lone Star_ of Savannah, but none ever reached us.
At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better dressed people, who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man.
“‘It is also my custom,’ said he, smiling in the most pleasant fashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white creases of his face, ‘to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand, so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe.’ “It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful a man.
Can you remember any other little things about Mr.
It was a quiet, little, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which several German books were scattered.
“There are several quiet little villages up there.” “And I am for north,” said I, “because there are no hills there, and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any.” “Come,” cried the inspector, laughing; “it’s a very pretty diversity of opinion.
Did you remark the postmarks of those letters?” “The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third from London.” “From East London.
Oh, what shall I do!” He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro, droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.
“There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha Inn, near the Museum—we are to be found in the Museum itself during the day, you understand.
I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.
I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection.
Perhaps the villain was softened by the woman’s entreaties.” “I hardly think that likely.
It must be where she can lay her hands upon it.
It was a delicate part which I had to play then, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter.
If the latter, it was less likely.
Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might prove useful, so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me.
The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties.” “I thank you,” said the young man, rising and pulling on his overcoat.
He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and did not want any friends, not even his own brother.
It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St.
I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room.
But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?” “I do not think Flora would hurt a fly.” “Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters.
Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his double-breasted coat, while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl.
It was not in front.
The ‘Cooee!’ was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with.
Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.
Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught him, and there was a struggle between them, your lad tugging at one side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other.
Was dressed, when last seen, in black frock-coat faced with silk, black waistcoat, gold Albert chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters over elastic-sided boots.
Well, every moment now is precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford.” Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together, bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village.
Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed over the meadows.
The fund was, of course, for the propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance.
Above all, try to let Mr.
Beside this table, on the wooden chair, sat Dr.
I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have no news of her husband.
If you find you cannot, take my advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy.
“Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour, that he takes snuff, that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately, I can deduce nothing else.” Mr.
That is his main fault, but on the whole he’s a good worker.
A fortnight went by, during which I frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human experience this lonely woman had strayed into.
“God help us!” said Holmes after a long silence.
The injuries were such as might very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son’s gun, which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body.
‘Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable.
The total income, which at the time of the wife’s death was little short of £ 1,100, is now, through the fall in agricultural prices, not more than £ 750.
Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic engineer.
It was the bisulphate of baryta.” “No, no, the mystery!” I cried.
She states that while she was there she saw, at the border of the wood and close by the lake, Mr.
I shall be busy this afternoon, and shall probably return to London by the evening train.” “And leave your case unfinished?” “No, finished.” “But the mystery?” “It is solved.” “Who was the criminal, then?” “The gentleman I describe.” “But who is he?” “Surely it would not be difficult to find out.
Some little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in the wall.
“It is said that Mr.
“And perhaps, after all, it is for the best.
How long they seemed, those quarters!
“No, it is not selfishness or conceit,” said he, answering, as was his wont, my thoughts rather than my words.
We have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years, and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures, libraries, or plate.
That was to some extent in favour of the accused, as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father.
No, sir, I shall approach this case from the point of view that what this young man says is true, and we shall see whither that hypothesis will lead us.
“Let me see,” said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing along the line, “I should like just to remember the order of the houses here.
You said that you wished to see me here to avoid scandal.” “I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall.” “And why did you wish to see me?” He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered.
I believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room.” “Ah!
“It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries.
This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr.
You know Peterson, the commissionaire?” “Yes.” “It is to him that this trophy belongs.” “It is his hat.” “No, no, he found it.
But he is a dirty scoundrel.” “Dirty?” “Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is as black as a tinker’s.
I look at them, and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there.” “Good heavens!” I cried.
He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.
I wouldn’t frighten Kate—poor little Kate.
‘Which is it you want, then?’ “‘That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.’ “‘Oh, very well.
Mother said he was quite right to make me swear, and that it was a sign of his passion.
His orders were to stay in the house.” Again Holmes raved in the air.
I have not treated her ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but you know what women are, Mr.
That, however, I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement.” “And you can do nothing until then?” “Nothing.” “In that case I shall continue my professional round.
Let me see it.” He took up the paper in a listless way, but his attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of satisfaction.
Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining.
I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker’s assistant was a formidable man—a man who might play a deep game.
“I am for west,” remarked the plain-clothes man.
There are several singular points about the case.
His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling.
THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER’S THUMB Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr.
I only doubt—’ “‘The propriety of my leaving it.
Monica, John,’ she cried, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’ “This was quite too good to lose, Watson.
I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me.
“It is of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the ground.
You have him here?” “In the cells.” “Is he quiet?” “Oh, he gives no trouble.
Of these bedrooms the first is Dr.
“Really, now!” cried the inspector, “you have formed your opinion!
I had no time to think of it.” “And how have you succeeded?” “Well.” “You have a clue?” “I have them in the hollow of my hand.
He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever happened I would always be true to him.
Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning, and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which I have listened to for some time.
Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I have heard of you.
It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercising enormous pressure.
“I think of writing another little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to crime.
“But a very serious one to me,” returned the King reproachfully.
It is a little place near the borders of Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading.
How could you know anything of the matter?” “My name is Sherlock Holmes.
The events in question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street.
The crudest of writers could invent nothing more crude.” “Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument,” said Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it.
‘You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?’ “‘One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,’ said I.
“I have some remembrance,” said he, “that on the day when my uncle burned the papers I observed that the small, unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular colour.
John Horner, a plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady’s jewel-case.
There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall.
Jump, Archie, jump, and I’ll swing for it!” Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.
I won’t have a fuss made about such nonsense.’ “It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinate man.
Let me pass, I say!’ He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with his heavy weapon.
The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle.
He would show me how to turn the stone into money.
“‘In my own bureau.’ “‘Well, I hope to goodness the house won’t be burgled during the night.’ said he.
I never noticed that before.” “Very strange!” muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope.
As I ran down the passage, my sister’s door was unlocked, and revolved slowly upon its hinges.
If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight, since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind.
He stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.
Windibank!” Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his pale face.
“When I went down there I found him talking with his son, so I smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone.
If the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty.
The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist.
Swiftly I threw off my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and wig.
What did she do on re-entering her father’s house?” “I saw her in conversation with her maid.” “And who is her maid?” “Alice is her name.
“My stepfather’s business papers.” “Oh!
His extreme love of solitude in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or something, so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from America.
Watson, I fear that you will find it very slow, but I shall only be away a couple of hours.” I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered through the streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel, where I lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel.
Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under, and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.
“Your case is an exceedingly remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it.
It was a homely little room, with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace, after the fashion of old country-houses.
Clair’s assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming.
I gave a cry of surprise, threw up my arms to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant, the Lascar, entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me.
He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he thought best, with the certainty that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed.
At eleven o’clock she rose to leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back.
“Well,” he said, “I say now, as I said then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library, where he can get it if he wants it.
We live very quietly, sir, the three of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do nothing more.
“When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the ‘Pink ’un’ protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a bet,” said he.
I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, after following Holmes’ example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the bedroom.
“It makes a considerable difference to me, having someone with me on whom I can thoroughly rely.
I am very angry indeed, and I have been shamefully used.” “I think that I heard a ring,” said Holmes.
It was damp, marshy ground, as is all that district, and there were marks of many feet, both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either side.
There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months.
But what could it indicate?
What can this be?’ Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate.
It may well have been cause and effect.
Well, he has always answered me like that.
“Hum!” said he, scratching his chin in some perplexity, “my theory certainly presents some difficulties.
She told him of the coronet.
What would he do then?
They were waiting for me in the drawing-room, which is a very large room, stretching along the entire front of the house, with three long windows reaching down to the floor.
“‘Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?’ “‘Oh, no.’ “‘Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?’ “I could hardly believe my ears.
The goose, sir!” he gasped.
That brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown.
“Surely this is not your husband’s writing, madam.” “No, but the enclosure is.” “I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address.” “How can you tell that?” “The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself.
I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that ever lived.
There is Mortimer’s, the tobacconist, the little newspaper shop, the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank, the Vegetarian Restaurant, and McFarlane’s carriage-building depot.
She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions.
Three gone before you could wink!’ He leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again.
“Have you the chisel and the bags?
“The name is familiar to me,” said he.
Then here are the father’s feet as he paced up and down.
I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play.” He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman.
The speckled band!’ There was something else which she would fain have said, and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the Doctor’s room, but a fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words.
I went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it was in me to be.
Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage, the door of which was standing open.
“You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so unprecedented a position.” “I will make no allowance.
There is something distinctly novel about some of the features.
“The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder, the game-keeper, lost sight of them.
“They would have had the lady’s purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him.
It is there that I shall seek it.” “Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, with news as to the box and the papers.
These flat brims curled at the edge came in then.
There is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify.
A mole could trace it, and there it vanishes among the reeds.
If the former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.
Yet I would rather die under my own roof than in a gaol.” Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him.
‘Perhaps we had better proceed to business, then,’ said he.
As to the photograph, your client may rest in peace.
Pray step into the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish to know.” The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe.
“Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine.” “In Heaven’s name, what for?” “In search of the body of Lady St.
Godfrey Norton, of the Inner Temple.
But what is this written above them?’ “‘Put the papers on the sundial,’ I read, peeping over his shoulder.
He is older than Arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one who had been everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty.
In a fit of anger, however, caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital sentence.
It must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the rope—or so we may call it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull.” “Holmes,” I cried, “I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at.
Then I looked in upon your son, told him that all was right, and eventually got to my bed about two o’clock, after what I may call a really hard day’s work.” “A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,” said the banker, rising.
The pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish.
“Oh, I’m in such trouble!” she cried; “I do so want a little help.” “Why,” said my wife, pulling up her veil, “it is Kate Whitney.
When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation, where he remained for three or four years.
He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf, until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour.
I slipped out, put on my things, and followed him.
Now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it.
Hardy, who used to be our foreman, and it was there I met Mr.
Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves.
However, in the morning I determined to have a look at it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of ink, and with a quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I started off for Pope’s Court.
He shall find me ready when he comes back.” For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect.
“I have seen the will of the deceased wife,” said he.
“No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence.” “Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was at least a most suspicious remark.” “On the contrary,” said Holmes, “it is the brightest rift which I can at present see in the clouds.
It is in the personal column of the _Morning Post_, and dates, as you see, some weeks back: ‘A marriage has been arranged,’ it says, ‘and will, if rumour is correct, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert St.
I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it.’ “‘No, I have not.
“I cannot see that there is anything very funny,” cried our client, flushing up to the roots of his flaming head.
“Won’t it ring?” “No, it is not even attached to a wire.
Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady.
It is likely that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only that this good gentleman, Mr.
The £ 4 a week was a lure which must draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?
You’ll know all about it presently.
He calls attention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his father having signalled to him before seeing him, also to his refusal to give details of his conversation with his father, and his singular account of his father’s dying words.
It was a singular sight which met our eyes.
When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers which controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage, which allowed a regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders.
To take the first example to hand, I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the right-hand side, and yet I question whether Mr.
“You didn’t know this dead man, McCarthy.
“His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I was known to be in weak health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property.
Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had been prepared.
When, in addition, I see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain, the matter becomes even more simple.” Mr.
There are several people in the neighbourhood, however, and among them Miss Turner, the daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who believe in his innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may recollect in connection with the Study in Scarlet, to work out the case in his interest.
I found the ash of a cigar, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar.
Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
“Well, perhaps, after all, it is of some little use,” he remarked.
Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled.
“‘Tell me all about it,’ said I.
“What can it mean?” I gasped.
I have watched the fellow more than once before ever I thought of making his professional acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has reaped in a short time.
I thought, however, that before taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to your consideration.” “Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles the question,” said Holmes, smiling.
I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing, but I can’t say what turn things are going to take.
She listened for an instant, threw up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come.
I then glanced at her face, and, observing the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose, I ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting, which seemed to surprise her.” “It surprised me.” “But, surely, it was obvious.
It is all dark to me.” “But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go.
“‘Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter.
“See that you keep yourself out of my grip,” he snarled, and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room.
Grimesby Roylott,” remarked the driver.
Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?” “I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner.
As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs.
My stepdaughter has been here.
I was wondering what I should say to this dear little woman to-night when she meets me at the door.” “You forget that I know nothing about it.” “I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to Lee.
So he sat as I dropped off to sleep, and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up, and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment.
“Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up.” “Oh, indeed!
Singularity is almost invariably a clue.
“You have it!” he gasped.
I am sorry to hear you say that.
“Yes, it must be so.
If Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will not appear against him, and the case must collapse.
“It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one, Mr.
Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?” “Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution.
Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy, soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ.
As far as I have heard, it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not, but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.
If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the name of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must insist that, even in your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.’ “‘I should much prefer to have it so,’ said he, raising up a square, black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair.
“I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder.
Suddenly, however, as I ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me.
Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face!
My suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his signature, which, of course, inferred that his handwriting was so familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of it.
The boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house.
Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral, Lord Backwater, Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St.
Jabez Wilson,’ said my assistant, ‘and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the League.’ “‘And he is admirably suited for it,’ the other answered.
Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed.
She used to be at the Allegro.
Large sitting-room on the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor, and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open.
Your niece knew nothing of such men.
You see we have already arrived, by a process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an American.
Nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour.
“I am going right on.” “Where to?” “Oh, to the other side of the West End.
I have myself some small business matters to attend to.
The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents, but as, by Mrs.
Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which I have bored you.
Well, the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has been for better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used.
With the connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself, covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses, masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure on account of the girl’s short sight, he appears as Mr.
I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have read the advertisement about it in _The Times_ every day lately.
“But I have heard that the crocuses promise well,” continued my companion imperturbably.
Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few months.
Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows.
There was not a bird to be seen there.
“It has been in some points a singular case,” said Holmes, flicking the horse on into a gallop.
We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him.
There is no communication between them, but they all open out into the same corridor.
When he breathed his vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart.
By the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter, and the cable will have informed the police of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder.” There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans, and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which would show them that another, as cunning and as resolute as themselves, was upon their track.
Wilson, that I was a red-headed man.’ “‘Why that?’ I asks.
Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in Bow Street.
“We are close there now,” my friend remarked.
It is a pity, because in other respects you would really have done very nicely.
“Good-morning, madam,” said Holmes cheerily.
You may then walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes.
“Is the poor gentleman much hurt?” she asked.
I must compliment you.” “And I you,” Holmes answered.
Be in your chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask.” “This is indeed a mystery,” I remarked.
It was to be at St.
When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St.
If this fail, I shall have recourse to other methods.” “What will you say?” “Give me a pencil and that slip of paper.
And you know where they are.
I will explain the state of things to you, as far as I have been able to understand it, in a very few words.
Still, of course, in America they look upon these things in a different way.” “How long did she speak to this Alice?” “Oh, a few minutes.
As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the note into my hand when he returned me the flowers.
Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately.
“It has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important.
Does not that strike you?” “I cannot as yet see any connection.” “Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?” “No.” “It was clamped to the floor.
Let us now see the letter.
A sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land, where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are no red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums.” My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit.
I need not point out to you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably in any future proceedings which may arise.
When these hot fits were over, however, he would rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him, like a man who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the roots of his soul.
He wouldn’t have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle.
Our reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a single branch office, and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject.” “Which were very well justified,” observed Holmes.
Simon alone, and so we came right away round to his rooms at once.
As Cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone, so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones, both before and after.
His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs.
McCarthy pass he had seen his son, Mr.
Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant living on the ground floor, and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of the Red-headed League.
It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats.
“As to the letters,” he continued, glancing over them, “they are very commonplace.
Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter even more terrible than the truth.
There is a comfortable sofa.
In a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser.
So say the Serpentine-mews, to a man.
I am all impatience to be gone.” “We must have a cab.” “No, my brougham is waiting.” “Then that will simplify matters.” We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.
“Sarasate plays at the St.
I determined, therefore, that for the next few days I would always carry the case backward and forward with me, so that it might never be really out of my reach.
I was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and hence my preference for a dirty face.
It is a _bijou_ villa, with a garden at the back, but built out in front right up to the road, two stories.
And now, you see, I had narrowed the field down considerably.
He would see it through the ventilator.” I nodded again.
Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house.
Then, as to sitting here or there, or amusing yourself in any manner indicated, that need cause you no inconvenience.
“I want to test a little theory of mine,” said he, pulling on his boots.
I simply wish to hear your real, real opinion.” “Upon what point?” “In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?” Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question.
“Which of you is Holmes?” asked this apparition.
“Yes, it would be as well.” “And I have some business to do which will take some hours.
But I must be prompt over this matter.” “What are you going to do, then?” I asked.
Then the charge against him will break down.” “Hum!
“Well, have you solved it?” I asked as I entered.
“That is the baboon.” I had forgotten the strange pets which the Doctor affected.
But between ourselves, Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me.
“That which my son himself indicated—that of the cupboard of the lumber-room.” “Have you it here?” “That is it on the dressing-table.” Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
On the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick, and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake.
“That will do,” said Holmes.
“It was a singular document.
Hatherley?’ said he, with something of a German accent.
“You must act, man, or you are lost.
It might or might not bite the occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but sooner or later she must fall a victim.
“Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done.
“I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the walls were of wood.
A man had waited outside the window; someone had brought the gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged at the coronet, their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected.
“He is looking up at the numbers of the houses.” “I believe that he is coming here,” said Holmes, rubbing his hands.
I shall drop you a line before I leave.” Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where we found lunch upon the table.
I saw where Boots had faced round, where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle, and, finally, where a few drops of blood had fallen, to show me that I was not mistaken.
“Your own deathbeds, when they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you have given to mine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame, he stumbled slowly from the room.
It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs.
Pray let me have the details.” “I warn you that they are very incomplete.” “Perhaps we may make them less so.” “Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of a morning paper of yesterday, which I will read to you.
This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
Holmes, but I cannot do that.
He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.
Besides, it is not I alone.
There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a quiet and respectable life.
Holmes, I don’t know.” “Where did he live, then?” “He slept on the premises.” “And you don’t know his address?” “No—except that it was Leadenhall Street.” “Where did you address your letters, then?” “To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called for.
A chair had been placed close to the central window, with its back turned towards it.
Her boots I didn’t observe.
But the deception could not be kept up forever.
What could be the reason of his overpowering terror?
They come, they go, they come again—of course that was for the cloak.
“‘Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?’ “‘Yes, it was gone.’ “‘You cannot say what it was?’ “‘No, I had a feeling something was there.’ “‘How far from the body?’ “‘A dozen yards or so.’ “‘And how far from the edge of the wood?’ “‘About the same.’ “‘Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?’ “‘Yes, but with my back towards it.’ “This concluded the examination of the witness.” “I see,” said I as I glanced down the column, “that the coroner in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy.
Etherege, whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead.
Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building, and my bedroom wall has been pierced, so that I have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very bed in which she slept.
His lip had fallen, his eyes were protruding, his skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope which he still held in his trembling hand, ‘K.
“You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor,” he remarked as we emerged.
There were six of us, and we had a wild, free life of it, sticking up a station from time to time, or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings.
“He is dead,” cried several voices.
A ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies.
His hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation.
Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it would give them two days for their escape.
It looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission.
Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number.
Every pocket stuffed with pennies and half-pennies—421 pennies and 270 half-pennies.
I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.’ “I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client.
From their conversation I have gathered that they have been married about seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia.
“You may rely upon my doing all that I can.” “But you have read the evidence.
Well, that is a list of my town suppliers.
It may, however, have been written on Monday and only posted to-day.” “That is possible.” “If so, much may have happened between.” “Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr.
‘You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.
The instant that we heard it, Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull.
But it was essential that they should use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the bullion might be removed.
She became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball.
It would break their hearts.
“Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago.
Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done.
Are you sure that everything is fastened?’ “‘Quite sure, dad.’ “‘Then, good-night.’ I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.
4.’ “‘What, the red-headed man?’ “‘Yes.’ “‘Oh,’ said he, ‘his name was William Morris.
She was very independent in little matters like that.
We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become you.
Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left behind, though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives.
I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.
“Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr.
Simon, who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little god’s arrows, has now definitely announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran, the fascinating daughter of a California millionaire.
Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope of safety.” Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.
My heart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred.
But that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than I could suffer.
“When did it break out?” “I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and the whole place is in a blaze.” “Whose house is it?” “Dr.
I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I have no idea how he came by his injuries.
I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still.
When I had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity.
From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our very window a long drawn catlike whine, which told us that the cheetah was indeed at liberty.
You see all these isolated facts, together with many minor ones, all pointed in the same direction.” “And how did you verify them?” “Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration.
On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared, that the bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco casket in which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to keep her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table.
“My name is John Robinson,” he answered with a sidelong glance.
It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London.
He will find it as sure a precursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him.” “And who is this Captain Calhoun?” “The leader of the gang.
I should like an accurate description of him and any letters of his which you can spare.” “I advertised for him in last Saturday’s _Chronicle_,” said she.
Windibank came he made her sell the business, for he was very superior, being a traveller in wines.
I dressed hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial, and hastened downstairs.
The same porter was on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived.
It was a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun.
It’s worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men, so that the trustees are at their wits’ end what to do with the money.
“The left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places.
Holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantelpiece and, leaning back with his hands in his pockets, began talking, rather to himself, as it seemed, than to us.
It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose.
“I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit street.
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin.
“I think that this should do,” said he, glancing into the glass above the fireplace.
The sleeper half turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber.
His knees were what I wished to see.
I would not have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that I had any dislike to the lad, but his blood was in him, and that was enough.
It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street.
I call him father, though it sounds funny, too, for he is only five years and two months older than myself.” “And your mother is alive?” “Oh, yes, mother is alive and well.
The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.
“Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw, to my horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the street, with her eyes fixed full upon me.
So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St.
Holmes, but when I got to that address it was a manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr.
Saviour’s, near King’s Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St.
Holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction.
He had no friends at all save the wandering gipsies, and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land which represent the family estate, and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents, wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end.
“They have laid the supper, then,” he said, rubbing his hands.
Is it possible that even now, when I give you these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?” “I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am unable to follow you.
Holmes, when she married again so soon after father’s death, and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself.
I passed along the tradesmen’s path, but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable.
Holmes, my hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.
You must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described.
My wants were few and simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my valise, rattling away to Paddington Station.
James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the road.
But you may imagine what I felt when, just as I came to the altar rails, I glanced back and saw Frank standing and looking at me out of the first pew.
“I only looked in as I passed,” said he.
With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner.
I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.
It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape, hard and much the worse for wear.
He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face.
Jabez Wilson’s presence—in other words, that they had completed their tunnel.
Then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear.
The small matter in which I endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia, the singular experience of Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor, were all matters which are outside the pale of the law.
“It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
Sit down and let us talk it over.” Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow.
Every clue seems to slip through my fingers.
“I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy in my mind now.
“You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear Watson,” he said cordially.
Man, or at least criminal man, has lost all enterprise and originality.
There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.
“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he said.
He was a remarkably handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached—evidently the man of whom I had heard.
Which was it?” “Breckinridge is his name.” “Ah!
There’s no vice in him.” “He is still with you, I presume?” “Yes, sir.
When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love.
“‘No excuse will avail,’ said Mr.
Sherlock Holmes,” said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; “I have a small pawnbroker’s business at Coburg Square, near the City.
My groom and my page sleep out of the house, and may be set aside altogether.
Frank said that he would go and make his pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had as much as Pa.
If I remember rightly, you on one occasion, in the early days of our friendship, defined my limits in a very precise fashion.” “Yes,” I answered, laughing.
It could only be a small one, or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner’s inquiry.
Very much so.” “Then I can wait in the next room.” “Not at all.
Now, look at that third name.
I think myself that it is a page from some private diary.
I slipped out of bed, all palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.
One of these, whom I had cured of a painful and lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence.
There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which throws up mud in that way, and then only when you sit on the left-hand side of the driver.” “Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct,” said she.
There were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no robbery, no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads.
“‘Look here, dad,’ said he with his eyes cast down, ‘can you let me have £ 200?’ “‘No, I cannot!’ I answered sharply.
This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar.” “And how?” “In the dress is a pocket.
I shall write to Mr.
Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that he was writing me a note.
Shortly after our return to England my mother died—she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe.
“Pray be precise as to details,” said he.
“Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down the steps—for the house was none other than the opium den in which you found me to-night—and running through the front room she attempted to ascend the stairs which led to the first floor.
But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally well?” “Oh, certainly, certainly,” answered Mr.
The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there, ready to flash out at a moment’s notice.
“It is an ordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket, fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting.
To Sherlock Holmes she is always _the_ woman.
Get out of this!” He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.
I begged a fortnight’s grace from the creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise.
You have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales.” It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street.
“‘Why,’ says he, ‘here’s another vacancy on the League of the Red-headed Men.
You observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger, but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink.
We have a housekeeper now, but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way.” “Excellent.
Don’t you dare to meddle with my affairs.
Here it is, and you can read for yourself.” He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper.
I hope that I make it all plain?’ “‘I quite follow you,’ said I.
You can leave your bag.” “No, I think that I’ll take it.” “Very good.
O.” Then he sealed it and addressed it to “Captain James Calhoun, Barque _Lone Star_, Savannah, Georgia.” “That will await him when he enters port,” said he, chuckling.
“On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything.
The daughter was of a good, amiable disposition, but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways, so that it was evident that with her fair personal advantages, and her little income, she would not be allowed to remain single long.
Had I been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hour’s purchase; for I have used it before now for my own purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to have vengeance upon me.
All these I may sketch out at some future date, but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of circumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.
“And now there is only she to be described.
It appears that she was formerly a _danseuse_ at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.
So determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered, and had almost come to believe that Mrs.
“You have already imperilled the whole success of our expedition.
The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in, when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in the morning.
The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word ‘band,’ which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent.
What a shrimp it is, to be sure!” For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser.
“On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last, McCarthy left his house at Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe Pool, which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream which runs down the Boscombe Valley.
‘How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?’ “‘My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,’ said I.
“Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a chase.
This man has written the name, and there has then been a pause before he wrote the address, which can only mean that he was not familiar with it.
“I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor,” said he, “but I have had a very serious accident during the night.
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart.
When you drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors, with the result that you have seen.” “And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?” I asked.
I know it, and I want you to start upon your work knowing it, too.
All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver, poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take £ 2.
“‘Yes, thief!’ I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.
The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr.
“That’s it!” cried Hatherley, in intense excitement.
McCarthy and his son, and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel.
I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room.
We must come back to that.
I seem to be in the grasp of some resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight and no precautions can guard against.” “Tut!
“It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter.
“I am delighted to hear it,” he said.
Hosmer Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct, and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident, as far as we could see, was the stepfather.
His death was seven weeks later, upon the night of May 2nd.” “Thank you.
“Frankly, then, madam, I do not.” “You think that he is dead?” “I do.” “Murdered?” “I don’t say that.
What a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was!
“It would cease to be a danger if we could define it,” said he.
I then hurried forward, and found him standing by the pool.
Lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found, and, indeed, so moist was the ground, that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man.
At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement.
Still, that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete.
Every day, from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon, I waited in my little den, until at last my heart began to sink, and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at all.
I took a few of my friends into the secret, however, and they suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields.
“The Coroner: What do you mean?
He laughed, I remember, and shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying anything to a woman, for she would have her way.” “I see.
“Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here.
“Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so.
John Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to the old country.
But soon he found that that would not answer forever.
It is quite too transparent, and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question.
And which king?” “The King of Scandinavia.” “What!
He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left to right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses.
I am not hysterical, nor given to fainting.
In the road stood our horse and trap, with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head.
In a hundred other ways he has helped him.
“When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California, and had always been his friend.
He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said: “Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes.” There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.
My wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning.
She was but thirty at the time of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to whiten, even as mine has.” “Your sister is dead, then?” “She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you.
“‘Oh, never mind about that, Mr.
The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber.
“Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese,” said he.
Should it prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure, wish to follow it from the outset.
I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results.
There is a woodcock, I believe.
“I shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house again.
Look out for me to-morrow, about eleven.
He had for years been known as a professional beggar, but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one.
My guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wit’s end.
Turner’s lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to ask for assistance.
With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him.
Holmes, for I wish you to thoroughly understand the situation.
“I wish to have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet.” “Certainly, Mr.
Early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading, but there all traces of the fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes’ ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts.
“About sixty; but his constitution has been shattered by his life abroad, and he has been in failing health for some time.
“‘Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St.
But there is a cheetah and a baboon.” “Ah, yes, of course!
“Why,” said I, glancing up at my companion, “that was surely the bell.
“There’s a cold-blooded scoundrel!” said Holmes, laughing, as he threw himself down into his chair once more.
It was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first to have my wound dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here.
Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me?
“What will the Duke say,” he murmured, “when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?” “It is the purest accident.
There were a couple of brace of cold woodcock, a pheasant, a _pâté de foie gras_ pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles.
What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass?
You quite follow me?” “Entirely.” “It is nothing very formidable,” he said, taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket.
‘What have I to do with sundials and papers?
Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.
I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr.
Becher’s.” “Tell me,” broke in the engineer, “is Dr.
Now carry out my orders to the letter.” As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue.
Clair had been deluded when, with a cry, she sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it.
He hastened upstairs, and a few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial hunt.
It is very unlike his usual writing, and yet I know it well.” “‘Dearest do not be frightened.
“Then that explains what the girl said.” “Undoubtedly.
We had, however, an aunt, my mother’s maiden sister, Miss Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady’s house.
To-day is Saturday, and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion.” “Well, Watson,” said Holmes when our visitor had left us, “what do you make of it all?” “I make nothing of it,” I answered frankly.
“‘I wish you, John,’ said my uncle, ‘to witness my will.
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.
The lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he still refused to raise his eyes.
I can do nothing for myself.” I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers, holding my breath to keep out the vile, stupefying fumes of the drug, and looking about for the manager.
It was an ideal spring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east.
Hosmer Angel.” A flush stole over Miss Sutherland’s face, and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket.
I tell you, all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred.” “You’ll never persuade me to believe that.” “Will you bet, then?” “It’s merely taking your money, for I know that I am right.
Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.
“My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she was always as good as her word.
“I have had diabetes for years.
With a rending, tearing sound, one of the broad, white stones turned over upon its side and left a square, gaping hole, through which streamed the light of a lantern.
Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases.
She never came back.” “But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to her room, covered her bride’s dress with a long ulster, put on a bonnet, and went out.” “Quite so.
Simon, I think that I have nearly all my data.
It was as well for his resolution, perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist.
I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to the sill, when his blow fell.
But now, thanks to this lucky chance, I think that we have got them right enough.” But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice.
As I glanced at the box I noticed, with a start, that upon the lid was printed the treble K which I had read in the morning upon the envelope.
I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you about this little matter, for I think it is far better not to wash linen of the sort in public.
Yet when I spoke to her of the matter, she answered me abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling cause.” “Indeed!
The son, as far as he knew, was in Bristol.
I knew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
You did not know where to look, and so you missed all that was important.
With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me.
What can you gather from this old battered felt?” “Here is my lens.
There is that double possibility.
I hadn’t been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank out of the window at the other side of the road.
But you’ve got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here a few hours, three pipes, four pipes—I forget how many.
“And now, Doctor, perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb, or rather to the place where my thumb used to be.” He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand.
It cost me something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings.
He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act of throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink.
He has seen too much.
The machine goes readily enough, but there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little of its force.
The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr.
Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details.” My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition, which I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened.
Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in feature.
“As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the country, and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation.
Let us thrust this creature back into its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county police know what has happened.” As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man’s lap, and throwing the noose round the reptile’s neck he drew it from its horrid perch and, carrying it at arm’s length, threw it into the iron safe, which he closed upon it.
Our party is complete,” said Holmes, buttoning up his pea-jacket and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack.
Yet, with all this, you made me reveal what you wanted to know.
Violence does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another.
“Pray, lie down there and make yourself absolutely at home.
She writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed.
He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him.
Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness—such an absolute darkness as I have never before experienced.
I shall not say another word about this business, since you have chosen to insult me.
It is pleasant to me to observe, Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say, occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence not so much to the many _causes célèbres_ and sensational trials in which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special province.” “And yet,” said I, smiling, “I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records.” “You have erred, perhaps,” he observed, taking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a meditative mood—“you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect which is really the only notable feature about the thing.” “It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter,” I remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism which I had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend’s singular character.
Let the whole incident be a sealed book, and do not allow it to affect your life.” “You are very kind, Mr.
Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police.” “Oh, I have heard of that fellow,” answered my visitor, “and I should be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of course I must use the official police as well.
When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?’ “‘Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business already,’ said I.
Have your pistol ready in case we should need it.
He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem.
I have already learned all that is in the public prints, nothing more.
But I have heard, Mr.
Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met it.
There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if evil came upon him.
It was so small that a rat could hardly pass through.” “I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran.” “My dear Holmes!” “Oh, yes, I did.
On ascertaining that his daughter had disappeared, Mr.
“An accident, I presume?” “By no means.” “What!
“‘Come, man, come, only three minutes, or it won’t be legal.’ “I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear, and vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spinster, to Godfrey Norton, bachelor.
“But I would not have let the young man come to harm.
By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.
Simon, tapping his fingers upon the table.
“Do you receive much company?” he asked.
“‘You blackguard!’ I shouted, beside myself with rage.
“If you can do nothing better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere.” “No, no,” cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen.
Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant answered it.
Hosmer Angel?” “He was a very shy man, Mr.
Rather than I should marry another woman, there are no lengths to which she would not go—none.” “You are sure that she has not sent it yet?” “I am sure.” “And why?” “Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.
A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination.
“Well, I never!” said he.
Some of them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier.
So much for the police-court,” said Holmes thoughtfully, tossing aside the paper.
It has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money, and that it is still lying in our cellar.
Your task is confined to that.
But I’ll go home with you.
I know that everything was turning round, and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear.
This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened.
“What has she been saying to you?” screamed the old man furiously.
Ah, here it is: ‘There will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market, for the present free-trade principle appears to tell heavily against our home product.
A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle.
“You may not be aware that I have royal blood in my veins.
I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and I thought that, as we were a _partie carrée_, you might have your rubber after all.
Also, by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house.” “You are certainly joking, Holmes.” “Not in the least.
In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business.
Finally he returned to the pawnbroker’s, and, having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times, he went up to the door and knocked.
And this promises to be interesting.
I believe that that is the village inn over there?” “Yes, that is the Crown.” “Very good.
I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible, so I shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences.” Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-lidded expression which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I sat opposite to him, and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us.
You have made your statement very clearly.
And what do you think they found in the pockets?” “I cannot imagine.” “No, I don’t think you would guess.
Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?” “That is a possible solution—in fact, as matters stand, it is the most probable one.
At the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal, beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon his knees, staring into the fire.
It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when she met her end.
When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals.
Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and that she, with confederates, no doubt, was responsible for her disappearance.
Then when you hear him retire for the night, you must open the shutters of your window, undo the hasp, put your lamp there as a signal to us, and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to occupy.
His name is Armitage—Percy Armitage—the second son of Mr.
I had begun to take comfort too soon, however; yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father.” The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips.
Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his, who forgot all about it for some days.” “That was it,” said Holmes, nodding approvingly; “I have no doubt of it.
Problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses.
So were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice, which both hinted at a disguise, as did the bushy whiskers.
In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea fishes.
“‘What are you doing there?’ he asked.
I went about, however, with a heart which was full of forebodings.
But what in the name of the devil!” The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture.
Then suddenly realising the exposure, he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.
But the creature flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the matter.
It was an Indian cigar, of the variety which are rolled in Rotterdam.” “And the cigar-holder?” “I could see that the end had not been in his mouth.
And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate your view.
It is in a German-speaking country—in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad.
I would not have missed it for worlds.
The blow was struck from immediately behind, and yet was upon the left side.
There was no sign of him there.
Those, I think, were the main points of my analysis.” Holmes grinned at the last item.
You are screening your stepfather.” “Why, what do you mean?” For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor’s knee.
And, first, as to how it came here.
This is only where we compress it.
‘Not at all,’ said I, ‘I shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes.
The will is very clear upon that point.
Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it.” The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back.
In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one’s self under obligations.’ “‘For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?’ I asked.
“I thought at first that you had done something clever, but I see that there was nothing in it after all.” “I begin to think, Watson,” said Holmes, “that I make a mistake in explaining.
A single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner’s jury.
Holmes, I met him twice for walks, but after that father came back again, and Mr.
Clair had her lunch, started for the City, did some shopping, proceeded to the company’s office, got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station.
To do this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers.
Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends.
Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother, and I find that I can do pretty well with what I earn at typewriting.
“I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!” said Holmes severely.
Had he appeared surprised at his own arrest, or feigned indignation at it, I should have looked upon it as highly suspicious, because such surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances, and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man.
I sat down beside the fire, however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.
I’ll tell you first how I came to be in his power.
His grandfather was a royal duke, and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford.
That is the true story, gentlemen, of all that occurred.” “Well, it is not for me to judge you,” said Holmes as the old man signed the statement which had been drawn out.
And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.
‘It is high, but it may be that you can jump it.’ “As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’s cleaver in the other.
“You’ll come with me, won’t you?” “If I can be of use.” “Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so.
I should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me.
From the time that I heard of the assistant having come for half wages, it was obvious to me that he had some strong motive for securing the situation.” “But how could you guess what the motive was?” “Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue.
Irene Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, looking back into the street.
Hatherley, as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret.’ “I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an address.
You have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed.
Holmes,” said he, “my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man.
I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.
Well, here’s your good health landlord, and prosperity to your house.
They appear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives, though both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings of the neighbourhood.
That will be next Monday.” “Oh, then we have three days yet,” said Holmes with a yawn.
“Smart fellow, that,” observed Holmes as we walked away.
James McCarthy, going the same way with a gun under his arm.
You cannot imagine how comical he was, and I laughed until I was quite weary.
I gave the maid a card, but I see that she has left it upon the side-table.” I took it up and glanced at it.
He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and lived generally in good style.
Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady as we entered a well-lit dining-room, upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out, “I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions, to which I beg that you will give a plain answer.” “Certainly, madam.” “Do not trouble about my feelings.
All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
James’s Gazette_, _Evening News_, _Standard_, _Echo_, and any others that occur to you.” “Very well, sir.
It may stop his gossip.
Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house.
A moment later we were out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand.
The inspector sat down at his desk.
You are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes.
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.
Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding.
“‘At least,’ said he, ‘you will not have me arrested at once.
This also was opened, and led down a flight of winding stone steps, which terminated at another formidable gate.
His name is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the City.
It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue.
I think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them.
He was removed, loudly protesting, to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue.
I understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance.
Of course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim.
Now, if you cared to apply, Mr.
“Wedlock suits you,” he remarked.
Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama.
We found him, when we went to search for him, face downward in a little green-scummed pool, which lay at the foot of the garden.
I’ve had enough of it.
“Do you not find,” he said, “that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?” “I did at first,” she answered, “but now I know where the letters are without looking.” Then, suddenly realising the full purport of his words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear and astonishment upon her broad, good-humoured face.
It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart.
He drew up the windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as fast as the horse could go.” “One horse?” interjected Holmes.
“Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me.
I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but, between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up; and, even if they believe me, the clues which I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done.” “Ha!” cried I, “if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you desire to see solved, I should strongly recommend you to come to my friend, Mr.
Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw—yes!
But I would rather not talk about the creature, Mr.
“Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning.” “That’s no good.” “Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare.” “Ah, but I was recommended to you.” “Who by?” “The landlord of the Alpha.” “Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen.” “Fine birds they were, too.
Let the weight of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it further.
On the whole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being less bold or less murderous than his companion, had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger.
I bought this estate, which chanced to be in the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money, to make up for the way in which I had earned it.
“How could they have decoyed him down there?
The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the steps.
My sister asked me what was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel.
“Quite an interesting study, that maiden,” he observed.
“Nothing could have been better.
“Not yet.” “But you have hopes?” “I have hopes.” “Then, come.
“Great heavens!” cried the inspector, “it is, indeed, the missing man.
Now, when you see that a young lady, otherwise neatly dressed, has come away from home with odd boots, half-buttoned, it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a hurry.” “And what else?” I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by my friend’s incisive reasoning.
‘There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he, ‘and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable.
Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of.
Her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other, noting every little want and forestalling it if possible.
And she will do it.
“Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled, and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn’t know what I was doing or saying.
“Pray take a seat,” said Holmes.
There’s plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can’t get the end of it into my hand.
Holmes walked over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.
I will just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours.
They are the devil’s pet baits.
“The postmark is London—eastern division.
But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I began to think.
The prisoner lay with his face towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily.
We were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over.
“It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was.
Angel, save that he quotes Balzac once.
I was too shaken to go to bed again, however, so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, and drove to Leatherhead, from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your advice.” “You have done wisely,” said my friend.
“These are young McCarthy’s feet.
She has heard of you, and would have your opinion, though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing which you could do which I had not already done.
His boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch—all were there.
“You are right,” he cried; “I am the King.
By degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer, by whom he now has two children.
“‘If you please, Miss Stoper.’ “‘Well, really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion,’ said she sharply.
“Shillings have not been so plentiful with me as they once were,” he remarked.
What do you want?” he asked in a quavering voice.
As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others.
Have you a cab?” “Yes, I have one waiting.” “Then I shall go in it.
I have been cut to the quick.
I saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him.
All well.” “Thank you!” said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it to our visitor.
You will find it here, and may read it for yourself.” He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper, and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had occurred.
We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits, and yet the result is, it must be confessed, neither fascinating nor artistic.” “A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect,” remarked Holmes.
‘If you choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.’ “By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voice in my anger.
And what do you intend to do?” “In view of your health, nothing.
It is the more strange, since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea.
Miss Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the Westbury House festivities, is an only child, and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures, with expectancies for the future.
All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it.’ “We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fat manager and I behind him.
Frank wouldn’t throw up his hand, though; so he followed me there, and he saw me without Pa knowing anything about it.
It was not a common thing for him to receive letters, for his bills were all paid in ready money, and he had no friends of any sort.
Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him, he might still flatter himself that he was safe, for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own family.
“I am afraid that I am still a sceptic,” he said.
During that time I have lived happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed away from the family, and that it had ended with the last generation.
Just two months ago.” “Very good.
The alarm, however, was given, and, by the aid of the water-police, the body was eventually recovered.
Would you mind reading me the advertised description of Mr.
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?
She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants’ escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was all perfectly true.
It is one of these cases—but, hullo, here is Lestrade!
He was plainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than thirty.
Holmes; and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I am able to give him.
Rucastle to be back before three.
I could not hear a sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous tension in which I was myself.
“Read it aloud.” The note was undated, and without either signature or address.
These good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine.
The police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it.
The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress, the letter was superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes, Esq.
I left the bird, rushed back to my sister’s, and hurried into the back yard.
Holmes stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner’s face.
“I am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past.” It was not very long before my friend’s prediction was fulfilled.
As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his father, and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him, and even, according to the little girl whose evidence is so important, to raise his hand as if to strike him.
The fire was burning brightly, and in the grate there was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned paper, while the brass box stood open and empty beside it.
Hosmer Angel vanish from your memory, as he has done from your life.” “Then you don’t think I’ll see him again?” “I fear not.” “Then what has happened to him?” “You will leave that question in my hands.
I didn’t know what to do.
Two attempts of the sort have already been made.
Oh, do, do take my word for it that he is innocent.
Doran’s door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to push her way in, uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife, and even threatening her, but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort, and I had two police fellows there in private clothes, who soon pushed her out again.
I could see that she was pretty, and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich material.
Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window, and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations.
A Case of Identity IV.
As to Holmes, I observed that he sat frequently for half an hour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he swept the matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it.
Has a white splash of acid upon his forehead.” Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement.
“It is a petty feeling, no doubt, but it hurts my pride.
I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.
She is impetuous—volcanic, I was about to say.
He never did wish us to go anywhere.
“I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child.
Fordham shows you.’ “I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away with him.
But here are three separate tracks of the same feet.” He drew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view, talking all the time rather to himself than to us.
“By Jove, Peterson!” said he, “this is treasure trove indeed.
That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford to-night.
I heard the creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit the light and attacked it.” “With the result of driving it through the ventilator.” “And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side.
You may advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me.” “I am all attention, madam.” “My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who is the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of Surrey.” Holmes nodded his head.
He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the window, sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight.
The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand, and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come.
There was the point from which all my adventures started.
“It appeared in all the papers about a year ago.
McCarthy was in favour of it.” A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one of his keen, questioning glances at her.
Wilson?” “Yes, I have got it now,” he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column.
An important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders.
He took the more chivalrous view, however, and preserved her secret.” “And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet,” cried Mr.
“There you are,” said he.
And he said that I had nothing fit to wear, when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken out of the drawer.
I shall be happy to do anything that I can to serve you.” I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client.
The manor-house is, as I have already said, very old, and only one wing is now inhabited.
I was at my wit’s end where to get the money, but a sudden idea came to me.
Known to have been employed in an office in Leadenhall Street.
It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler.
Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet.
Holder,” said he; “I can serve you best by returning to my rooms.” “But the gems, Mr.
The rest is of the greyish colour, which shows that blotting-paper has been used.
“Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St.
I know him from the photograph.” The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny.
His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing gentleman’s clothes.
Our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman, obese, pompous, and slow.
I was glad that he should go, for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home.
At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of “Fire!” The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and ill—gentlemen, ostlers, and servant maids—joined in a general shriek of “Fire!” Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window.
You have come up from the south-west, I see.” “Yes, from Horsham.” “That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive.” “I have come for advice.” “That is easily got.” “And help.” “That is not always so easy.” “I have heard of you, Mr.
sweating—rank sweating!’ he cried, throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion.
This is what he says: “‘MY DEAR MR.
We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poor Frank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing.
It is headed, ‘Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding’: “‘The family of Lord Robert St.
You said it should not be again.
“He’s a beauty, isn’t he?” said the inspector.
This business has had a very bad effect upon him.
In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a small public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into Holborn.
“Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and hoped with diligence that I might get on to the B’s before very long.
It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you.
“And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had feared to find.
The daughter told us as much.
And good-night, Watson,” he added, as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street.
He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books.
“This is a very deep business,” he said at last.
He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat.
“The vanishing of the lady.” “When did she vanish, then?” “At the wedding breakfast.” “Indeed.
How you startled me, Kate!
It was early in April in the year ’83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed.
I am at my wit’s end.
After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners’ camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank’s name among the killed.
It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for five minutes.’ “‘That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what you have stolen,’ said I.
All this is amusing, though rather elementary, but I must go back to business, Watson.
Let us follow it out to the bitter end.
A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.
As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and fastened as I approached.
“‘Most admirably.’ “‘I say a night’s work, but an hour’s would be nearer the mark.
Kindly sign the paper where Mr.
Clair, of Lee, in the county of Kent.” Never in my life have I seen such a sight.
The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large staples.
He waved his hands frantically to her, and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind.
At first I thought that she had not recognised me, but as I bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget, ‘Oh, my God!
There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still.
“I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments, but I can hardly be expected to make merry over them.
Lestrade and I walked behind him, the detective indifferent and contemptuous, while I watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a definite end.
“It was very sweet of you to come.
“For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very quiet; on the third, Mrs.
When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me, and he would make me his representative both with the servants and with the tradespeople, so that by the time that I was sixteen I was quite master of the house.
James Ryder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose.
“You may place considerable confidence in Mr.
I cannot allow that there is any humiliation.” “Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint.” “I fail to see that anyone is to blame.
But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days of the great cases are past.
You heard him yourselves to-night.
I think that with your permission I will now wish you all a very good-night.” He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.
And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.” “To an end?” “Yes, sir.
“I had an idea that he might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me.” He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very large bath-sponge.
In ten days I had the money and had paid the debt.
“Yes,” said Holmes, answering the look rather than the words.
As it was, he suffered a long term of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and disappointed man.
I understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests.
We are spies in an enemy’s country.
“And pray what am I charged with?” “With making away with Mr.
I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me.
Sherlock Holmes had not come back yet.
He had even smoked there.
Are you hungry, Watson?” “Not particularly.” “Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot.” “By all means.” It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats.
I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the house.
He was trying to utter the name of his murderer.
I have not seen a paper for some days.” “The London press has not had very full accounts.
There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men.
Holmes, and the little things that he would think of.” “It was most suggestive,” said Holmes.
I advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success.
Now, would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?” Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but without success.
THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLUE CARBUNCLE I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas, with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season.
K., and why does he pursue this unhappy family?” Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together.
Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain.
That is quite settled,” said he, rising and putting his lens in his pocket.
Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her expression was weary and haggard.
The Adventure of the Speckled Band IX.
She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse.
I know that Miss Stoner has been here.
You have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me.” “No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more.
It was a labyrinth of an old house, with corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little low doors, the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them.
What does her clever stepfather do then?
As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and a few moments later a clanging sound, as if a mass of metal had fallen.
“And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently brought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the fascination of his manner.
“I let you know, then, that I have caught him!” “What!
We have had some skirmishes, but we had never set eyes upon each other before.
I trust, sir, that you will succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin Arthur is innocent of this crime.” “I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove it,” returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the snow from his shoes.
“You seem to expect company.
Grimesby Roylott’s chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished.
The same post brought me a letter from Westhouse & Marbank, of Fenchurch Street, to say that the description tallied in every respect with that of their employé, James Windibank.
There was one about three miles off.
Simon came to ’Frisco, and we came to London, and a marriage was arranged, and Pa was very pleased, but I felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank.
I was already deeply interested in his inquiry, for, though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded, still, the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own.
Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.
Hence, you see, my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey.
Jones, it is all right,” said the stranger with deference.
repeated upon it, and ‘Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register’ written beneath.
We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon the linoleum.
How do you go back?” “By train from Waterloo.” “It is not yet nine.
Large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out-house, but no coins were to be found, which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to.
“It is quite a pretty little problem,” said he.
“The august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and I may confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is not exactly my own.” “I was aware of it,” said Holmes dryly.
I was a young chap then, hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at anything; I got among bad companions, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, took to the bush, and in a word became what you would call over here a highway robber.
“‘The ceremony, which was performed at St.
“My name,” said he, “is John Openshaw, but my own affairs have, as far as I can understand, little to do with this awful business.
When I had cleared it all up I had an interview with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, I told it to him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite clear to me.
Heh?’ “‘No,’ said I, considerably astonished at his words.
He is round in the stable lane now.” “The stable lane?” She raised her dark eyebrows.
He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled over with notes and figures.
In two hours we must be on the scene of action.
As I passed the tall man who sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a low voice whispered, “Walk past me, and then look back at me.” The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear.
It arrived upon Christmas morning, in company with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson’s fire.
You say that there was a gentleman in the pew.
“A pair, by the sound,” said he.
It was a considerable sum, for people in their position, and the loss of it would have made a serious difference.
However that may be, the young lady was very decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that her stepfather was in France, the suspicion of treachery never for an instant entered her mind.
But have you never been prosecuted for begging?” “Many times; but what was a fine to me?” “It must stop here, however,” said Bradstreet.
To me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged.
I have some account of the matter here, I believe.” He rummaged amid his newspapers, glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read the following paragraph: “Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery.
The bridge, no doubt, was too crowded, even on such a night, for their purpose.
Mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than I was.
It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken advantage of it.
The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of creatures from India, I felt that I was probably on the right track.
“You see, but you do not observe.
It is not too much to say that once or twice, as in that business of the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure, he has been more nearly correct than the official force.” “Oh, if you say so, Mr.
The banker’s dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror.
To speak plainly, the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein, hereditary kings of Bohemia.” “I was also aware of that,” murmured Holmes, settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes.
You are not averse to this trip, Watson?” “By no means.” “Then we shall both come.
Might I ask you a question or two?” “Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up.” “You heard nothing yourself last night?” “Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly.
“His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not such a youth, either.
The rapidity with which such a poison would take effect would also, from his point of view, be an advantage.
“You are hungry,” I remarked.
It was quite against my wishes that she came, but she is a very excitable, impulsive girl, as you may have noticed, and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind on a point.
I was the only passenger who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern.
However innocent he might be, he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him.
I used to be able to keep two assistants, but now I only keep one; and I would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business.” “What is the name of this obliging youth?” asked Sherlock Holmes.
If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to prove their authenticity?” “There is the writing.” “Pooh, pooh!
Those are the main facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court.” “I could hardly imagine a more damning case,” I remarked.
And here he comes, if I am not mistaken, to resolve all our doubts.” As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’ hoofs and grating wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell.
“‘DEAR MISS HUNTER,—Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision.
I shall take no notice of such nonsense.’ “‘I should certainly speak to the police,’ I said.
Having taken the printed description.
“I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night.
“What?” “I am no official agent.
K.’; and then ‘Put the papers on the sundial.’” “What have you done?” asked Holmes.
From my position I could look over the case in the direction of the floor.
There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, and the damp was breaking through in green, unhealthy blotches.
She would like advice, but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication.
He was young, not more than five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong, masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation, which it took all his strength of mind to control.
On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the gentleman’s chambers in the Temple.
SHERLOCK HOLMES,—You really did it very well.
Could your patients spare you for a few hours?” “I have nothing to do to-day.
“I can see nothing,” said I, handing it back to my friend.
Simon and his wedding?” “Oh, yes, with the deepest interest.” “That is well.
Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room.
“It is a swamp adder!” cried Holmes; “the deadliest snake in India.
The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle Contents I.
These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous.
Just a trifle more, I fancy, Watson.
“I have solved it.” “Eh?
Then he stepped into the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street.
But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall.
A Scandal in Bohemia II.
With an apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.
Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr.
“But he’ll be gone before you can get him to hospital.” “He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman.
Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger.
He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very grave face.
The sight of the safe, the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which may have remained.
This year our good host, Windigate by name, instituted a goose club, by which, on consideration of some few pence every week, we were each to receive a bird at Christmas.
No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing.
I took two steps forward and looked back.
“You are fresh from a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonous occupation.” “Oh, my night could not be called monotonous,” said he, and laughed.
It was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted.
It is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police, and which a singular chance has placed in our hands.
There is, however, one of these last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been, and probably never will be, entirely cleared up.
Young Openshaw shall not long remain unavenged.
Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord St.
It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood gazing at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose.
She is four-and-twenty.” “This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her also.” “Terrible!
I imagine that you saw all that I did.” “I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that could answer I confess is more than I can imagine.” “You saw the ventilator, too?” “Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms.
As it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years, and as Lord St.
“‘Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,’ said he.
No, it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate.
Within there was a small corridor, which ended in a very massive iron gate.
I say it is south, for the country is more deserted there.” “And I say east,” said my patient.
It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it.
I read for about ten minutes, beginning in the heart of a chapter, and then suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he ordered
I must raise the money in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.’ “I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month.
Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him.
As I have reason to believe, however, that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable episode.
“I noted, in passing, that she had written a note before leaving home but after being fully dressed.
There are not many in London which charge at that rate.
We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every day.
“There,” said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile.
A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been sitting in the window, rose as we entered.
“I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out.
It appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex.
The other was his singular dying reference to a rat.
“‘Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most certainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you think it right to charge.
I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise.” Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh.
From under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous, hesitating fashion at our windows, while her body oscillated backward and forward, and her fingers fidgeted with her glove buttons.
It is my strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have been deceived.” “Was your sister dressed?” “No, she was in her night-dress.
I am a dangerous man to fall foul of!
Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred the case to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their breakfasts at home.” “I am afraid,” said I, “that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case.” “There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact,” he answered, laughing.
Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within.
These are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat.
“I have been making a fool of myself,” he gasped.
For all these reasons I expected them to come to-night.” “You reasoned it out beautifully,” I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.
THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE I had called upon my friend, Mr.
It is evidently trying to your nerves.” “Oh, no, not now.
It was of excellent material, a sort of beige, but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before.
Altogether, look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features.
And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?” “She walked into the breakfast-room.” “On your arm?” “No, alone.
“Well, when they closed their League offices that was a sign that they cared no longer about Mr.
“‘They may do what they like, but I’ll checkmate them still,’ said he with an oath.
Clair was doing in the opium den, what happened to him when there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his disappearance—are all as far from a solution as ever.
Having laid out all these luxuries, my two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the Arabian Nights, with no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered to this address.
You must have started early, and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached the station.” The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion.
“Sold out of geese, I see,” continued Holmes, pointing at the bare slabs of marble.
In this way you see K.
He saw her stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain.
“Holmes,” I cried, “you are too late.” “Ah!” said he, laying down his cup, “I feared as much.
Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed.
Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick, all-comprehensive glances.
Wilson?” “Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr.
Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at the other was deep in one of Clark Russell’s fine sea-stories until the howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text, and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves.
I thought of the salt that I have been working upon.
McCarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the old days in Victoria.” “Ha!
“Your red-headed idea was very new and effective.” “You’ll see your pal again presently,” said Jones.
And then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy.
“Not only that, but the signature is typewritten.
You see this little book?” “Well?” “That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy.
“So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action.
Then perhaps I had better postpone my analysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in the morning.” By eleven o’clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old English capital.
“Well, I guess you have every cause to be.” “Pray make no apology to me,” said Lord St.
Oh, do not waste the so-precious time, but come!’ “This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice.
“Just tell us the truth,” he said.
When he came to the high road at the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to that clue.
It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention.
I understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir, though I presume that they were hardly from the same class of society.” “No, I am descending.” “I beg pardon.” “My last client of the sort was a king.” “Oh, really!
“Hold up, man, or you’ll be into the fire!
One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus apparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his mistress, believing her to be with the company.
Oh, don’t bring it into court!
One night—it was on the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice), when my way led me through Baker Street.
“You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks.
“I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my assistant.
They are important, you understand, without being interesting.
I am the last court of appeal.” “And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, you have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events than those which have happened in my own family.” “You fill me with interest,” said Holmes.
We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square.
Clair through the window, there is no human eye which could have seen the deed.
We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner, the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence, but referred it to the Assizes.
After all, I thought, we are not injuring her.
By the way, there does not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall.” “There were none.
“I fished about with a rake.
Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.
He had no occupation, but was interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning, returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street every night.
Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me.
Did he make no attempt to see you?” “Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone.
Depend upon it, there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace.” I smiled and shook my head.
“You’re angry, Robert,” said she.
By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs.
I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip upon the matter but, above all, to preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because I need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it.
“That is very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present.
Could I not come at some more convenient hour?’ “‘We have judged it best that you should come late.
For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned home in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26_s_.
“My heart had turned to lead.
“Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest.” We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way to Leatherhead.
“It is very essential, Miss Stoner,” said he, “that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect.” “I shall most certainly do so.” “The matter is too serious for any hesitation.
A vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me.
Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at Baker Street.
There could be no possible reason.
But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at once.’ “‘I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse,’ said I, ‘were it not that the strain would be rather more than it could bear.
He has little time, for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has already heard from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street.
But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy in my mind about them.” “What can you not understand?” “Their reasons for their conduct.
I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.’ “‘That is quite correct,’ I answered; ‘but you will excuse me if I say that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional qualifications.
The wind was howling outside, and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows.
I caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach.
“Good heavens!” I cried, “this is a terrible injury.
Now, what do you think would happen if I did break it, Mr.
Colonel Lysander Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I should think, from the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that we took, that it must have been nearer twelve.
Still, of course, one can’t refuse a lady, and such a very positive one, too.
“And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in the matter.
‘I should be able to look after that for you.’ “‘What would be the hours?’ I asked.
Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order of time, while I take a glance as to who our client is.” He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece.
I found that I had my man, so I came home and changed my clothes.
Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her ear, and then, pushing her back into the room from whence she had come, he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand.
“Yes, I did bang out of the house,” she said, “for it made me angry to see the easy way in which Mr.
John’s Wood.” Holmes took a note of it.
“One other question,” said he.
But I must owe something.
Windibank did not wish us to go.
“I thought it as well,” said Holmes as we climbed the stile, “that this fellow should think we had come here as architects, or on some definite business.
You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to be a mere whim at first, developed into a serious investigation.
“I believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories.
It would be a pity to miss it.” “But your client—” “Never mind him.
“If the police are to hush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone.” “I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take.” “In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken.
Had he lost his wife?” “You can understand,” said Holmes suavely, “that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours.” “Of course!
It is possible that I might have placed them upon record before, but a promise of secrecy was made at the time, from which I have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given.
You have heard something, Mr.
All over the countryside, away to the rolling hills around Aldershot, the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the new foliage.
Hosmer Angel.” “I suppose,” said Holmes, “that when Mr.
The only drawback is that there is no law, I fear, that can touch the scoundrel.” “Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?” The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door.
“I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience.
That trick of staining the fishes’ scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to China.
James’s Hall this afternoon,” he remarked.
It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track.
“‘_L’homme c’est rien—l’œuvre c’est tout_,’ as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.” III.
“And who could it be who was her confederate?
I was determined that the law should have its way in everything.
It was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them two and thirty pounds.” “We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you.
The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth.
I fear that I have brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber.” “Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes.
There was a rush, a clatter upon the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street.
Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you.
On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had happened.
“I have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still this evening.
“Well, I have been twenty-seven years in the force, but this really takes the cake.” “If I am Mr.
He had a garden and two or three fields round his house, and there he would take his exercise, though very often for weeks on end he would never leave his room.
The gentleman, however, seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and took out a note.
“I should not be surprised if that were he.
I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.
Do you not deduce something from that?” “We have got to the deductions and the inferences,” said Lestrade, winking at me.
These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw.
You will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box.” The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand.
On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself, and his father, who was by all accounts a very hard man, would have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth.
There is no sign of any other weapon.” “And the murderer?” “Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket.
It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!” “I shall never let it drop until the gems are found—never, Mary!
Drink this.” I dashed some brandy into the water, and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.
“You have really got it!” he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
Then, when they talked of marrying within the week, I began to ask about father; but they both said never to mind about father, but just to tell him afterwards, and mother said she would make it all right with him.
I should like, however, to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.’ “‘Quite so.
Wilson’s assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League.
Neville wrote those words.” “And they were posted to-day at Gravesend.
I leave a photograph which he might care to possess; and I remain, dear Mr.
Paul’s.’ “I started off, Mr.
Duncan Ross; ‘neither sickness nor business nor anything else.
His broad black hat, his baggy trousers, his white tie, his sympathetic smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr.
We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.” “And what then?” “You must leave that to me.
Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon.
However, when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others, and he closed the door as we entered, so that he might have a private word with us.
But I don’t know why it should be tied.” “That is not quite so common, is it?
And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if Dr.
He has nerve and he has knowledge.
As he stepped up to the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly, ‘Drive like the devil,’ he shouted, ‘first to Gross & Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St.
There the matter stands at present, and the questions which have to be solved—what Neville St.
A clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place.
This morning he was removed to a cell, and I, after going through all the police formalities, have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter.
I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time.
The goose we retained until this morning, when there were signs that, in spite of the slight frost, it would be well that it should be eaten without unnecessary delay.
“It is no time for me to hide anything.
Your salary with me, madam, would commence at £ 100 a year.’ “You may imagine, Mr.
If you will have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we will begin another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief feature.” VIII.
Your Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person, wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting those letters back.” “Precisely so.
He received us in his quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us in a hearty meal.
Did I buy the geese off you?” “No; but one of them was mine all the same,” whined the little man.
“Yes, only one.” “Did you observe the colour?” “Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage.
“I can’t make bricks without clay.” And yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation.
“I trust that I am not intruding.
And about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concerned in it.” “In what way?” asked Holmes.
It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me.
This strange, wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad elements—blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale—and now to have been reabsorbed by them once more.
The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair.” “Pray compose yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.” “My name,” answered our visitor, “is probably familiar to your ears.
His dress was rich with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad taste.
“I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until, some time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me for £ 25.
I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, I made him keep the appointment.” “But with no very good result,” I remarked.
“Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances.
Don’t you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little?
It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will, or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the _Encyclopædia Britannica_.
The tip had been cut off, not bitten off, but the cut was not a clean one, so I deduced a blunt pen-knife.” “Holmes,” I said, “you have drawn a net round this man from which he cannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if you had cut the cord which was hanging him.
Your wife has been waiting this two days for you.
I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could earn £ 700 a year—which is less than my average takings—but I had exceptional advantages in my power of making up, and also in a facility of repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised character in the City.
He has taken to his bed, and Dr.
“This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.
M.’ Now my theory all along has been that Lady St.
This account of you we have from all quarters received.
Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?” “I think that it is very probable.” “There, now!” she cried, throwing back her head and looking defiantly at Lestrade.
As to the note, it is important also, or at least the initials are, so I congratulate you again.” “I’ve wasted time enough,” said Lestrade, rising.
“Just see how it glints and sparkles.
“He is, in my judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and for daring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third.
“It is really very good of you to come, Watson,” said he.
Rucastle seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man.
But I’ll have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to be obstinate.” The salesman chuckled grimly.
Flora was a dear little thing, but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me.
I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred.
“It may be so, or it may not, Mr.
When I have spun the web they may take the flies, but not before.” All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in the evening before I returned to Baker Street.
Angel began to call, for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced.
“I was afraid that you were engaged.” “So I am.
Within was a small, square room, in which the three of us could hardly get at one time.
I was very weak, but I have had a good deal to go through.” “Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter.
“What can it mean, this relentless persecution?” “The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship.
I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them.” “Very naturally.
There’s never very much to do of a morning.” “That will do, Mr.
Then I seized my coat, which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which I carried my takings.
There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn where I would, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow.
You made some small job in my lady’s room—you and your confederate Cusack—and you managed that he should be the man sent for.
The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked.
“I really wouldn’t miss your case for the world.
Naturally, it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this.
They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and Tudor on the distaff side.
Therefore he used a holder.
May we bring him in, marm?” “Surely.
I answer, because I was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle’s life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another.
By profession I am a hydraulic engineer, and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson, the well-known firm, of Greenwich.
‘I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.’ “‘You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with a passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature.
“There is no mystery, my dear madam,” said he, smiling.
“You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me.” The Count shrugged his broad shoulders.
He entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before, and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for him.
McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead in the wood, and to ask for the help of the lodge-keeper.
It was the same next week, and the same the week after.
I walked round the corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our friend’s premises, and felt that I had solved my problem.
“This is the girl’s stepfather, Mr.
It must be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit.
“Indeed, I should have thought a little more.
Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church?
Within are the very words which were upon my father’s last message: ‘K.
I think that I have touched bottom at last, however.
“‘I would go,’ said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speak calmly; ‘I would go.
Her dress was brown, rather darker than coffee colour, with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves.
“I should be very glad now to go upstairs,” said he.
I should feel so much stronger if I felt that you were at the back of me.” “Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you.
The ring, after all, proves nothing.
“I fancy that my pal is all right, though I see you have got his coat-tails.” “There are three men waiting for him at the door,” said Holmes.
“Yes, it is correct, as far as it goes.” “But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion.
I could not dream of sacrificing it in this offhand fashion.
Don’t wait up for me in case I should be late.” “How are you getting on?” “Oh, so so.
She was so frightened by their violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool, and that she was afraid that they were going to fight.
It’s hard to say his age.
You’d be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am.
Henry Baker,” said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him.
There are only two, a man and his wife.
“Very sorry to knock you up, Watson,” said he, “but it’s the common lot this morning.
I thought of the assistant’s fondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into the cellar.
Holmes?” “I called about that beggarman, Boone—the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr.
So now!” “Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don’t know why you should be so warm over such a trifle.” “Warm!
When I rose from my father I looked round for it, but it was gone.
You do not mean bodies?” “Ay, bodies, Watson.
here is her carriage at the door.” He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life.
I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he entered, to say so, but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task.
At last, however, the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a stand.
I went to my work as usual at ten o’clock, but the door was shut and locked, with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack.
“‘It is absolutely essential to me,’ said he, ‘that I should have £ 50,000 at once.
I felt, however, that when Whitney was once confined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest, I could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his existence.
It was one bird, I imagine in which you were interested—white, with a black bar across the tail.” Ryder quivered with emotion.
“The murder was done with it.” “I see no marks.” “There are none.” “How do you know, then?” “The grass was growing under it.
That is important.” “Yes, at the mines.” “Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr.
A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA I.
I might at any moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoat pocket.
Of course, that is only just for the time.
“Not invisible but unnoticed, Watson.
Ordering my cab to wait, I passed down the steps, worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found the latch and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke, and terraced with wooden berths, like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.
The summons was a brief and urgent one.
Yours faithfully, “VIOLET HUNTER.” “Do you know the young lady?” I asked.
That was the word the man uttered, and of which his son only caught the last two syllables.
He started me off upon the letter A, and then he left me; but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me.
“No; we don’t keep a cat.
Holmes,” said he, “but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are breaking the law now, and not me.
A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the opposing windows loomed like dark, shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths.
“Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all.” “Not social, then?” “No, distinctly professional.” “And from a noble client?” “One of the highest in England.” “My dear fellow, I congratulate you.” “I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case.
He was kind to her also in his bluff, boisterous fashion, and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.
‘The only point which I could not quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller’s-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like gravel from a pit.’ “‘Ah!’ said he carelessly, ‘we have our own process.
I never hear of such a case as this that I do not think of Baxter’s words, and say, ‘There, but for the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.’” James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the defending counsel.
he is the greengrocer who brings our vegetables round.
“They are coiners on a large scale, and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver.” “We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work,” said the inspector.
I have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man.
Twice since I have been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr.
One of the largest stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man, with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters.
Very long and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year.
Clair by name, who appeared to have plenty of money.
The pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the room was full of a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap of shag which I had seen upon the previous night.
A maid rushed across and threw open the window.
I shall look into the matter between this and then.
How dare you touch that coronet?’ “The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding the coronet in his hands.
Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door?” “I was staggered, sir.
“I thought I’d bring him round myself; then he couldn’t slip away.
But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come uppermost.
“Do you mean that she has left England?” “Never to return.” “And the papers?” asked the King hoarsely.
He throws it out, and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below, and only just had time to close the window when the police appeared.” “It certainly sounds feasible.” “Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better.
One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic.
Hold it up to the light.” I did so, and saw a large “E” with a small “g,” a “P,” and a large “G” with a small “t” woven into the texture of the paper.
She had the surest information that of late he had, when the fit was on him, made use of an opium den in the farthest east of the City.
“‘Where have you put it?’ asked Arthur.
Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon his breast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat beside him, curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts.
“’Pon my word, Watson, you are coming along wonderfully.
“You really are very fine indeed.
Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.’” “Now, then, what’s the last entry?” “‘December 22nd.
I had remained indoors all day, for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the jezail bullet which I had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence.
He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending it with all his strength.
Just beyond it, however, at the far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked with a man, whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg.
If this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago, and has had no hat since, then he has assuredly gone down in the world.” “Well, that is clear enough, certainly.
But how to get to him in safety?
It was a chestnut.” “Tired-looking or fresh?” “Oh, fresh and glossy.” “Thank you.
Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him.” “I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner,” said Sherlock Holmes.
He was himself red-headed, and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men; so, when he died, it was found that he had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees, with instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of that colour.
Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair.
“All has turned out splendidly.
Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
“The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin, who was introduced to me as Mr.
I suppose you know what you have got?” “A diamond, sir?
“There is serious news this morning,” Lestrade observed.
I threw open the window, reopening by my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning.
As I expected, his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects.
‘I shall not keep you waiting an instant,’ said he, and vanished into the darkness.
“I say, Watson, what o’clock is it?” “Nearly eleven.” “Of what day?” “Of Friday, June 19th.” “Good heavens!
I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my stone to Kilburn.
“Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.
He was always well dressed, very neat and plain, but his eyes were weak, just as mine are, and he wore tinted glasses against the glare.” “Well, and what happened when Mr.
“Holmes, the busybody!” His smile broadened.
Poor father has never been strong for years back, but this has broken him down completely.
“Of course, in your position of unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout three continents, you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre.
Old as is the idea, however, there were one or two details which were new to me.
“‘Some preposterous practical joke,’ said he.
Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions.
On receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways, or might fly from the country.
It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has data.
It is nearly five now.
Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave, I found the den of which I was in search.
B.’ are legible upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers, and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them.” “What, then, did Peterson do?” “He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.
The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure.
Then, again, I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red, or dark red, or anything but real bright, blazing, fiery red.
“Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!” Holmes chuckled heartily.
You have made two blunders in as many minutes.
“Why,” he shrieked, “you’re looking at the wrong side!” “On the contrary, this is the right side.” “The right side?
Making our way among the trees, we reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness.
Rucastle, walking up and down on the other side of the room, began to tell me a series of the funniest stories that I have ever listened to.
It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way: “Have you a couple of days to spare?
No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boy sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out.” He chuckled to himself as he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night.
From north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.
Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.
You surprise me.” “Who ever heard of such a mixed affair?
I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not inconvenience you.
And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him.
With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.
It is precisely for that reason that we are going to Stoke Moran this day.
“The Coroner: I am afraid that I must press it.
I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister’s house.
“‘Precisely.’ He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft, flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named.
I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep, and indeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.
Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.
I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then made my way to Mr.
Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it.
How cruelly I have misjudged him!” “When I arrived at the house,” continued Holmes, “I at once went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow which might help me.
There is no other,’ said I; ‘but the papers must be those that are destroyed.’ “‘Pooh!’ said he, gripping hard at his courage.
Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable, and, having closed the door and bowed her into an armchair, he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted fashion which was peculiar to him.
I implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries.
The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she describes as being terribly agitated.
“May I see it?” “Certainly.” He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently.
I didn’t quite like that, Mr.
“Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I was in low spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud, though what its object might be I could not imagine.
Charles McCarthy, who was also an ex-Australian.
Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.
What d’you want to frighten a chap for?” He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.
“Where does that bell communicate with?” he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.
“I am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions,” he said.
When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people.
Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman’s wit.
Now where did they come from?” He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood.
Come!’ “‘What then?’ I asked.
Do I make myself plain?” “Perfectly so.” “The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn.
It could not have been a better fit if I had been measured for it.
Holder,’ said he, ‘I have been informed that you are in the habit of advancing money.’ “‘The firm does so when the security is good.’ I answered.
And yet this John Openshaw seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the Sholtos.” “But have you,” I asked, “formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?” “There can be no question as to their nature,” he answered.
The streets will be crowded, so I trust that you may be in safety.
On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom.
Two hours passed slowly away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright light shone out right in front of us.
“Bring me the books, Bill,” said he.
My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one.” “The Cedars?” “Yes; that is Mr.
And now we must be silent and wait.” What a time it seemed!
Then he turned to me, tapped his forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and hurried away.
“That fellow will rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad, and ends on a gallows.
I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable as possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster.
That second window is the one that I jumped from.” “Well, at least,” said Holmes, “you have had your revenge upon them.
And many men have been wrongfully hanged.” “What is the young man’s own account of the matter?” “It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters, though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive.
We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
All day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows, so that even here in the heart of great, hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation, like untamed beasts in a cage.
Out there fell a cascade of children’s bricks.
Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence—‘This account of you we have from all quarters received.’ A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that.
I called in the inspector and gave him into custody.
He is not a very quick-witted youth, though comely to look at and, I should think, sound at heart.” “I cannot admire his taste,” I remarked, “if it is indeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this Miss Turner.” “Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale.
“Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office as usual, but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone.
He answered that the name was new to him.
I could manage it better if I were alone.
Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles.” “Ha!
“There will call upon you to-night, at a quarter to eight o’clock,” it said, “a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment.
Holmes,” answered my companion, looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.
I have already offered a reward of £ 1000.
Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the table, I began to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing.
“We have retained these things for some days,” said Holmes, “because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address.
He did tell me the address.
“Watson, I think you know Mr.
“Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream, and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather together that I was able to avert another public exposure.
It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some terrible trap for her.” “Well, it is a possible supposition.” “You think so, too?” “I did not say a probable one.
I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.’ “‘It is not worth your while to wait,’ she went on.
Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire.
And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours.” “Quite so,” he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself down into an armchair.
It is founded upon the observation of trifles.” “His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length of his stride.
About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex, near Horsham.
He said that he had never heard of any such body.
I knew that he would be true to me, for I knew one or two things about him; so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into my confidence.
There’s two of us, me and my son, and you can have the keeping of us.
In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings, I had no difficulty in recognising Lestrade, of Scotland Yard.
Who were these German people, and what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place?
You don’t comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time.’ “‘It’s only four hours a day, and I should not think of leaving,’ said I.
I may want your help, and so may he.
Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram from the major, imploring me to come at once.
But my memory and my girl!
I must go now, Doctor; I have my dooties, just the same as you.” And off he went, this trusty tout, without even giving me time to thank him.
As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.
The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air, which set an edge to a man’s energy.
He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post.
I got his leave to come into town this morning, though he little knew for what purpose.” “Let us have everything in its due order.” Holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.
He found, as so many more have done, that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug, an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives.
THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of the Theological College of St.
‘From India!’ said he as he took it up, ‘Pondicherry postmark!
I tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible, but I had not forgotten the warnings of the lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen eye upon my two companions.
James and his father had many disagreements about me.
He and the two mates, are as I learn, the only native-born Americans in the ship.
One night—it was in June, ’89—there came a ring to my bell, about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock.
“I feel that time is of value,” said he; “that is why I hastened here when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your co-operation.
What did they say, then, of the disappearance of these gems?” “They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them.” “Have they thought of looking outside the house?” “Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy.
“I am not quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own.” As he spoke he picked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.
Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a little from the road.
He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers.
In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed.
Then at the gasfitters’ ball you met, as I understand, a gentleman called Mr.
From comparing notes afterwards it was but an hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the night must have almost gone, and the dawn be breaking above us.
The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.
What can I do?” Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.
If so, how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!
“You have a grand gift of silence, Watson,” said he.
Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.
Had she seen someone, then?
Clair, with the exception of his coat.
I understand that you give me _carte blanche_ to act for you, provided only that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on the sum I may draw.” “I would give my fortune to have them back.” “Very good.
It took all my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment.
‘You will be the ruin of us.
The idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training.
“You work your own method, and I shall work mine.
I may have to go down to Horsham, after all.” “You will not go there first?” “No, I shall commence with the City.
“You have, no doubt, already formed your conclusions from the newspapers,” he said.
“Here he is,” said he, sitting down and flattening it out upon his knee.
Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that I could do to distinguish the words: “The least sound would be fatal to our plans.” I nodded to show that I had heard.
I am afraid that I am a little late, but I am not quite my own master, you know.
That the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the last three years, although he has now fallen upon evil days.
Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open.
Imagine, then, my thrill of terror when last night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, I suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death.
“If you won’t tell us the bet is off, that is all.
If we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?” “As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business.
If you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you, you would not object to our little whim.
Now from this double point our research must commence, and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true.” “What of this ‘Cooee!’ then?” “Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son.
We shall want you to come to-night by the last train.’ “‘Where to?’ “‘To Eyford, in Berkshire.
There have been two murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.
“No doubt you think me mad?” said he.
When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have not seen her since.
In her right hand was found the charred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box.” “Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place.
“I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room.
You would certainly have been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago.
I thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so.
I have no doubt that, in spite of the repairs, you could manage there for one night.” “Oh, yes, easily.” “The rest you will leave in our hands.” “But what will you do?” “We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you.” “I believe, Mr.
Close at his heels came the colonel himself, a man rather over the middle size, but of an exceeding thinness.
Could you swear to it?” “That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry.
I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man.
You must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle, and that this is the only one which remains.
Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings.
A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity.
Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which may go on, year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser.
It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now.
At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed so savagely.
“And that is—” “That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine.” “Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog,” said Holmes, laughing.
While she was walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her husband looking down at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from a second-floor window.
Now,” he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided, “I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not much time.
‘I shall drive out in the park at five as usual,’ she said as she left him.
You must not interfere, come what may.
Three gilt balls and a brown board with “JABEZ WILSON” in white letters, upon a corner house, announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business.
“‘I am afraid that it is quite essential,’ said he.
You may remember the old Persian saying, ‘There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub, and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.’ There is as much sense in Hafiz as in Horace, and as much knowledge of the world.” IV.
I was then much surprised and interested on glancing down to observe that, though the boots which she was wearing were not unlike each other, they were really odd ones; the one having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and the other a plain one.
“And what do you think of it all, Watson?” asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.
“Ah yes, I recall the case; it was concerned with an opal tiara.
From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland.
I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face.
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can’t sleep a wink at night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it.
Roylott’s room.” With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.
Very few governesses in England are getting £ 100 a year.
Rucastle came down just after breakfast and whispered something to her husband.
The double line a little above the wrist, where the typewritist presses against the table, was beautifully defined.
He rummaged in his coat pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he laid it out upon the table.
Holmes, I wish you would do as much for me.
Your news of this morning, however, may open his lips.” “For Heaven’s sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary mystery!” “I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it.
‘Why, dash it all!’ said he, ‘I’ve let them go at six hundred for the three!’ I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him that there would be no prosecution.
Clair’s coat, and not Neville St.
It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son.
Breckinridge,” he continued, buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.
The head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon.
His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up in front, with the collar turned up, and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt.
“I have had nothing else to do.” “It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up.
“‘Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?’ says she.
The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside, well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing.
“Thank you,” said Holmes, “I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand.” “Third right, fourth left,” answered the assistant promptly, closing the door.
Windibank came back from France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball.” “Oh, well, he was very good about it.
It must have bled considerably.” “Yes, it did.
Never let yourself doubt upon that point.
George’s, Hanover Square, was a very quiet one, no one being present save the father of the bride, Mr.
But I see that the enemy’s preparations have gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light.
Holmes, and my mind is made up that I will accept it.
A fierce quarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder, who was equally hot upon the other side.
Tell us what you can, but stop when you are tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant.” “Thank you,” said my patient, “but I have felt another man since the doctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has completed the cure.
Too narrow for anyone to pass through.” “As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were unapproachable from that side.
Spaulding, he came down into the office just this day eight weeks, with this very paper in his hand, and he says: “‘I wish to the Lord, Mr.
Now, we must make the best use of our time, so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine.” The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high central portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out on each side.
“They have but one retreat,” whispered Holmes.
But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?” “One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow—walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other.
“Let me introduce you,” he shouted, “to Mr.
A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn, stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance.
Besides, it is a useless expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?” “On the contrary,” said Holmes quietly; “I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr.
“‘Yes, sir.’ “‘As governess?’ “‘Yes, sir.’ “‘And what salary do you ask?’ “‘I had £ 4 a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.’ “‘Oh, tut, tut!
He’s a young man, Mr.
Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer.
My marriage had drifted us away from each other.
It was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide.
“We have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it.” “Your French gold?” “Yes.
You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from Dundee.
It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part.
I met her several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her.” “She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?” “A fair dowry.
She is an American and came from California with her.” “A confidential servant?” “A little too much so.
Baker?” “Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat.” He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown.
I have no doubt that she loved you, but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.
I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then all was silent once more, though the smell grew stronger.
I shall take nothing for granted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it.
Did she know where her husband was?
“And now it is time that we arranged our little plans.
“It goes to the housekeeper’s room.” “It looks newer than the other things?” “Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago.” “Your sister asked for it, I suppose?” “No, I never heard of her using it.
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business; but it’s ‘Where are the geese?’ and ‘Who did you sell the geese to?’ and ‘What will you take for the geese?’ One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over them.” “Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries,” said Holmes carelessly.
At the foot of the stairs, however, she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken, who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistant there, pushed her out into the street.
You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little opening for the ventilator is.” “How very absurd!
Your skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it.
I put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise.” We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative.
He was in a pitiable state of reaction, with every nerve in a twitter.
Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut, boyish face, which looked keenly about it, and then, with a hand on either side of the aperture, drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee rested upon the edge.
“Yes.” “Game for a morning drive?” “Certainly.” “Then dress.
You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.
Sherlock Holmes!” she cried, glancing from one to the other of us, and finally, with a woman’s quick intuition, fastening upon my companion, “I am so glad that you have come.
His name is Francis Prosper.” “He stood,” said Holmes, “to the left of the door—that is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?” “Yes, he did.” “And he is a man with a wooden leg?” Something like fear sprang up in the young lady’s expressive black eyes.
This way, please!” Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window.
I think that there was probably some more tangible cause.
She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet.
There is, of course, the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, the bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady.
Even his voice was gentle.
“How do you know that?” She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes’ thin, eager face.
‘You can pass through the door; no one hinders.’ And then, seeing that I smiled and shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward, with her hands wrung together.
Where are they?” “I cannot tell.” The banker wrung his hands.
In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex.
There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War.
At dusk we saw Dr.
I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.
The crate upon which I sit contains 2,000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil.
Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air.
“‘It is locked up,’ I answered.
Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?” “If I may give an opinion,” remarked the strange gentleman, “we’ve had just a little too much secrecy over this business already.
Besides, what use was my hair to me?
Well, we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the matter.” A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened.
Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!’ “Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau, the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear, while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles.
I don’t know that your assistant is not as remarkable as your advertisement.” “Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr.
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?” “Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may have heard uncle’s remarks about the coronet.” “I see.
But Holmes shook his head gravely.
The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings.
“‘Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes,’ said he, throwing open another door.
It was something terrible and deadly.
“It is very good of Lord St.
All the way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective; and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road.
I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of London.” “Yes?” “The _Lone Star_ had arrived here last week.
Since you ask me, however, I may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair, the consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride, had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife.” “In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?” “Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back—I will not say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to without success—I can hardly explain it in any other fashion.” “Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis,” said Holmes, smiling.
Then, when he had left, you rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested.
You see, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect.
“Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?” “Yes, sir.
“You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the house, “this marriage rather simplifies matters.
“But pray tell me, before we go farther, who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting.” The man hesitated for an instant.
“I have been a governess for five years,” said she, “in the family of Colonel Spence Munro, but two months ago the colonel received an appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children over to America with him, so that I found myself without a situation.
Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is despaired of.” “An elderly man, I presume?” said Holmes.
The unusual salary, the curious conditions, the light duties, all pointed to something abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether the man were a philanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond my powers to determine.
On the table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar.
“Do you know, Watson,” said he, “that it is one of the curses of a mind with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with reference to my own special subject.
Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession.
It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me.
It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge.
Some of the general public were present, then?” “Oh, yes.
The alarm of fire was admirably done.
“Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much astonished, as you may both think, at this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me.
We got to the church first, and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step out, but he never did, and when the cabman got down from the box and looked there was no one there!
His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes.
Simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position.
“Why, I have lost four pound a week.” “As far as you are personally concerned,” remarked Holmes, “I do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league.
I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand.
Young McCarthy must be got off, however.” “I am a dying man,” said old Turner.
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much influence over her?
It must be in her own house.” “But it has twice been burgled.” “Pshaw!
Where is your father’s place of business?” “He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street.” “Thank you.
Sherlock Holmes, one day in the autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very stout, florid-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery red hair.
Holder,” said Holmes, “here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost.
“I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor, while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while she held a candle in her right.
Wilson, you would just walk in; but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds.’ “Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see for yourselves, that my hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance as any man that I had ever met.
Oh, he will be silent!’ “‘You are mad, Elise!’ he shouted, struggling to break away from her.
“A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties.
Pray wait until you have recovered yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you may submit to me.” The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against his emotion.
Suppose that this man Boone had thrust Neville St.
Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?” “Yes.” “Was she in good spirits?” “Never better.
I do not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriage to-night.” Lestrade laughed indulgently.
Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew that he had not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell of the strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke.
On the left ran a lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at all, being a public, though little used, thoroughfare.
What else could she do?
In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H.
There is nothing more to be said or to be done to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellow men.” It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city.
This note I had this morning marks my zero-point, I fancy.
If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away.” “Quite so.
THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the maid brought in a telegram.
We had driven several miles, and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas, when he shook himself, shrugged his shoulders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best.
In another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after him a companion, lithe and small like himself, with a pale face and a shock of very red hair.
I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, of Threadneedle Street.” The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London.
Come in!” The man who entered was a sturdy, middle-sized fellow, some thirty years of age, clean-shaven, and sallow-skinned, with a bland, insinuating manner, and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating grey eyes.
“Do you know, Watson,” said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering darkness, “I have really some scruples as to taking you to-night.
His face was bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long, sinewy neck.
I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.’ He took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful.
That is interesting,” said Holmes.
Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.
I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held—£ 1000 apiece.
Nothing but energy can save you.
“‘You may as well face the matter,’ said I; ‘you have been caught in the act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous.
His manner was brisk, and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age, for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked.
“We are on the outskirts of Lee,” said my companion.
By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me, slowly, jerkily, but, as none knew better than myself, with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp.
And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes!
It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned.
Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young McCarthy.
There it is, where the lady is walking.” “And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner,” observed Holmes, shading his eyes.
It was worth an effort to preserve it.
By the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at the opening, her face blanched with terror, her hands groping for help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard.
“In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole, with no actual ill-treatment from Mr.
It must be bought.” “She will not sell.” “Stolen, then.” “Five attempts have been made.
I will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be forced to use it.
It is perhaps the best possible solution.
Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening.
The man’s business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations, and such an expenditure as they were at.
All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me.
His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man, or else as a man of considerable self-restraint and firmness.
“It is not an English paper at all.
But since we see that he has broken the elastic and has not troubled to replace it, it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly, which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature.
“It means that it is all over,” Holmes answered.
“I think, Watson, that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.” “Seven!” I answered.
If she had, it must be someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely.
Impossible!” “It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain.
“I am so delighted that you have come,” she said earnestly.
Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground.
It was a long fight between my pride and the money, but the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting and sat day after day in the corner which I had first chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers.
Still, it might be worth while to call Holmes’ attention to it.
And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me.
If you but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us where the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’ “‘Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,’ he answered, turning away from me with a sneer.
Why, Watson, let us put their own devilish trade-mark upon them.
Holmes, that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart.
I’ll take you round to him myself.” “I should be immensely obliged to you.” “We’ll call a cab and go together.
“It’s a new patient,” he whispered.
“We never thought that she would have been so carried away.” “Very likely not.
Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?” “Certainly.
This fellow is madly, insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only a lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office?
And yet you cannot guard yourself too closely.” “I am armed.” “That is well.
Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the day, and that I might change my dress and go to little Edward in the nursery.
Of course, I did not mind you so much, as you are not connected with the official police, but it is not pleasant to have a family misfortune like this noised abroad.
He appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was doing there.
The central portion was in little better repair, but the right-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in the windows, with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys, showed that this was where the family resided.
“As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved.
Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire.
When I had listened to all they had to tell, I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think over my plan of campaign.
All the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness, gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to the music, while his gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmes the sleuth-hound, Holmes the relentless, keen-witted, ready-handed criminal agent, as it was possible to conceive.
I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination.
’Pon my word, it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant.
There’s money in this case, Watson, if there is nothing else.” “I think that I had better go, Holmes.” “Not a bit, Doctor.
Had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I should never have had a fear for her.
It is, of course, a trifle, but there is nothing so important as trifles.
I eliminated everything from it which could be the result of a disguise—the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I sent it to the firm, with a request that they would inform me whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers.
That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt, caught the clink of our horse’s feet.” “But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?” I asked.
Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared, and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones.
She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep.
Aloysius Doran, in conjunction with the bridegroom, instantly put themselves in communication with the police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business.
We have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak.” “Certainly.” “And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers could hardly wander.” “Quite so.” “Then comes our expedition of to-day.
I have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it.
If his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?” “Precisely.
As I approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight.
“Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure.
Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed radiance.
“It came by the last post,” said he.
One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat, such as he had started to town in, he had on neither collar nor necktie.
This was clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my companions, who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right.
It’s a cold night,” said Holmes.
“It has been a case of considerable interest,” he remarked, returning to his natural manner.
‘This is all quite beside the question.
Colonel Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door.
This woman might, for all I knew, be a monomaniac.
I remember that it was full of papers.” “There isn’t a cat in it, for example?” “No.
One was an old woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was William Crowder, a game-keeper in the employ of Mr.
I have driven down to tell you so.
There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this I drove one of the birds—a fine big one, white, with a barred tail.
He made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective.
“Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?” “Always.” “And why?” “I think that I mentioned to you that the Doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon.
The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot, it was obvious that he had passed after the other.
As a rule, when I have heard some slight indication of the course of events, I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my memory.
Then I asked him who Mr.
“I do not encourage visitors.” “A client, then?” “If so, it is a serious case.
Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading.
You shave every morning, and in this season you shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less and less complete as we get farther back on the left side, until it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw, it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the other.
“I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me.
He is one of the most dangerous men in England—a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or conscience.
He’ll crack a crib in Scotland one week, and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.
His tangled beard, grizzled hair, and outstanding, drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his appearance, but his face was of an ashen white, while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue.
Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter first.” He gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made for the door.
And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.
The second is that the murdered man was heard to cry ‘Cooee!’ before he knew that his son had returned.
6_d_., glass sherry, 8_d_.’ I see nothing in that.” “Very likely not.
“I find it hard enough to tackle facts, Holmes, without flying away after theories and fancies.” “You are right,” said Holmes demurely; “you do find it very hard to tackle the facts.” “Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to get hold of,” replied Lestrade with some warmth.
The lining had been of red silk, but was a good deal discoloured.
I stared at it horror-stricken, not knowing what was about to issue from it.
Clair is now thirty-seven years of age, is a man of temperate habits, a good husband, a very affectionate father, and a man who is popular with all who know him.
Indeed, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.
Simon, I have brought an advocate here who may be more successful.” He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.
If he braved the matter out, death would unfailingly come upon him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner.
“You are not very vulnerable from above,” Holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and gazed about him.
It is a hat of the very best quality.
He was clearly so scared by his mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of nothing but flight, but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his bird.
We have already a clue.
“Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow,” it said.
“Here is an advertisement which will interest you,” said he.
You are Holmes, the meddler.” My friend smiled.
And, I say, Peterson, just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me, for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now devouring.” When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light.
In dress now, for example.
But you will find that all I say is really to the point.
As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thought over it all, from the extraordinary story of the red-headed copier of the _Encyclopædia_ down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg Square, and the ominous words with which he had parted from me.
“I tell you that it is Friday, man.
We got away with the gold, became wealthy men, and made our way over to England without being suspected.
And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery sitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future only could show how strange it was to be.