From Pioneer Home to White House: Life of Abraham Lincoln.
He was thus employed when Admiral Sir Thomas Cochrane, of England, reached the same port and on the same errand.
He is a fine scholar, possesses a thorough knowledge of international law and is simply resolute in protecting the rights of himself and countrymen.
"I guess they mean it this time," remarked Lieutenant Sterrett, but the words were hardly spoken when the enemy let fly with another broadside.
The Americans had struck their first earnest blow, and it was a staggering one.
Who shall not hear while the brown Mississippi Rushes along from the snow to the sun?
Some of them deserted to our ships, so her officers began the practice of stopping such vessels on the ocean, searching them for deserters, and if found they were taken away.
The success was so decisive that Foote was applauded throughout the North, sharing the well-earned honors with General Grant, whose successful career is known to every boy in the land.
It was in the depth of winter and the shore was dangerous, but Winslow did his duty so well that the _Florida_ dared not poke her nose outside, until he was compelled, because of shortness of provisions, to steam over to Cadiz to obtain them.
the wind changed to a quarter favorable to the _Hornet_, and it lasted throughout the night and the next day.
To help matters, he flung a barrel of tar over the flames and in a few minutes they were roaring fiercely.
The treaty was signed on June 2, 1805.
No one needs to be reminded that the War for the Union was the greatest struggle of modern times.
Benjamin Franklin was among those who believed he deserved punishment for his perfidy.
Her commander, Captain James E.
Thus situated, with about one-fifth of my crew killed and wounded, my ship crippled and a more than fourfold force opposed to me, without a chance of escape, I deemed it my duty to surrender." The British senior officer of the squadron to whom Decatur offered his sword showed his appreciation of the American's gallantry and of his chivalrous treatment of Captain Carden, when the situations were reversed, by handing the weapon back to Decatur with the remark that he was proud to return the sword of an officer who had defended his ship so nobly.
He sailed again in the latter part of October with the smallest frigate in the navy, but with a full complement of officers and men.
It was behind the sash in his waist and directly in front.
The _Mississippi_ was hardly abreast of Fort St.
Reuben James, a sailor, who was so wounded in his arms that he could not use them, thrust his head forward and received the stroke upon his skull.
After his exchange, he was appointed to the command of the _Hornet_, and sailed from New York in the month of January, 1815, in company with the _Peacock_ and _Tom Bowline_, but the three became separated, each making for Tristan d'Acunha, which had been named as the rendezvous of the squadron under the command of Stephen Decatur.
Her loss had been heavy and her engines were so battered that her commander ran her ashore, where she was burned to the water's edge.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN JOHN PHILIP, OF THE "TEXAS."] Every movement of the splendid battleship was directed by her Captain, John W.
Juan de Ulloa and of Tampico.
All nations saw that their warships to be effective must be ironclad, and the reader does not need to be reminded that such is the fact to-day respecting the navy of every civilized nation.
Captain Jones reasoned that the captain of the _Drake_ would miss his officer after awhile and come out to learn what had become of him.
The valiant American, however, met with difficulties that were of the most exasperating nature.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN WILLIAM BAINBRIDGE.] The American squadron in that part of the world was increased, and a number of engagements took place, with the advantage invariably on the side of our countrymen.
Night settled over the harbor, and by and by the sounds of oars showed the enemy were approaching again.
Such was the opinion of every man except Henry Walke, commander of the _Carondelet_, who volunteered to try the seemingly impossible task.
Those who were able to do so gathered their valuables and took refuge on the merchant ships in the harbor and thanked heaven when they bore them away.
He kept calling out his commands while in the cockpit to fight harder and to keep the guns going.
He put forth every effort known to the most skilful seamanship.
At the same moment he directed the launch to go ahead at full speed.
The Boy's Writer= * * * * * A series of books known to all boys; books that are good and wholesome, with enough "ginger" in them to suit the tastes of the younger generation.
Lieutenant James Decatur, brother of Stephen, made chase of a Tripolitan vessel, reserving his fire until the two almost touched, when he poured in such a destructive discharge of musketry and grape that the terrified enemy surrendered.
Captain Ericsson, the famous Swedish inventor, was constructing on Long Island an ironclad about one-fourth the size of the _Merrimac_, and he was urged to all possible speed in its completion.
It was a long pull, and when they reached the outer pier of the harbor it was beginning to grow light in the east.
Like many of our naval heroes, he seems to inherit his fine fighting qualities, though it would not be far from the truth to say that such is the rightful heritage of every American soldier and sailor.
Firing immediately ceased on the part of the Union flotilla, and Foote sent a boat ashore to take possession.
His wish was granted and he was placed in command of the _Varuna_, a passenger steamer, purchased by the Government and changed into a gunboat.
A sudden dash promised her capture by surprise, when she could be taken down stream.
Then, too, the mighty ruler sometimes expressed a wish to receive naval stores instead of money, and we were happy to oblige him.
Then they boldly set out for Tripoli.
Had Captain Winslow followed, he would have been compelled by law to remain twenty-four hours after the departure of the _Alabama_, so he took a station outside, determined that the cruiser should not escape him again.
Philip so long as she was in range.
The British squadron consisted of six vessels, with an aggregate of 63 guns and 502 men.
His father's influence readily procured him the appointment of midshipman, and he was directed to report on the schooner _Grampus_, under the command of Lieutenant (afterward Admiral) Gregory.
At a council of the officers it was agreed that it was too hazardous to try to run one of the gunboats past the batteries.
Never was a more decisive victory gained by one nation over another in the whole history of the world.
The alarm had been given.
The navy consisted of 90 vessels, of which only 42 were in commission, while 21 were unfit for service, and of those in commission there were but 11, carrying 134 guns, that were in American waters.
I have rarely seen a finer sight.
Slowly and painfully the long minutes wore away, until it seemed as if several hours had passed, when in reality the interval was but a small part of that period.
The _Monitor_ had proven her inestimable value and was held in reserve by the Government for future emergencies.
The Alger books are not filled with "blood and thunder" stories of a doubtful character, but are healthy and elevating, and parents should see to it that their children become acquainted with the writings of this celebrated writer of boy's books.
George was a good specimen of the mischievous, high-spirited and roystering youngster, who would go to any pains and run any risk for the sake of the fun it afforded.
He sailed almost completely around Great Britain, during which he captured seventeen vessels, most of which were destroyed though the more valuable were sent into port in charge of prize crews.
The Barbary States were sour over their defeat, and, when the War of 1812 broke out, they eagerly seized the occasion to pick a quarrel with us.
The _Serapis_ attempted to cross the bow of the _Bonhomme Richard_, but miscalculated and the _Bonhomme Richard_ shoved her bowsprit over the other's stern.
P.S.--Should you meet with disaster, you will, as a last resort, destroy the steam machinery, and, if possible, to escape, set fire to your gunboat, or sink her, and prevent her falling into the hands of the rebels.
He knew that scores of English vessels were in the Pacific, and all Porter had to do was to capture them.
Reuben James was one of the volunteers who helped Decatur destroy the _Philadelphia_.
In most cases the bullet would have passed through both bodies, but, fortunately, the ball encountered some obstruction and did not reach the imperiled American.
The self-confidence of Admiral Montojo and his officers was almost sublime.
Men were running to and fro, and a number hurried toward the burning ship with the purpose of extinguishing the flames.
Several youngsters were howling from having served as targets to the urchin up the tree, and as soon as Mr.
Oliver Hazard Perry--Prompt and Effective Work--"We Have Met the Enemy and They Are Ours"--Death of Perry.
His objective point was a village three miles away, where several hundred cavalry were stationed.
Congress awarded him a sword and gold medal." It happened one day, when I was talking with Admiral Stewart at his home, that he showed me a Toledo sword which had been presented to him by the King of Spain, because of his rescue of a Spanish ship, drifting helplessly in mid ocean, with the captain and all the crew dead or prostrated by yellow fever.
The cannon being useless, Lieutenant Shubrick ordered a general assault upon the citadel, and it was made with a resistless rush.
The best of these were absent from illness and other causes.
Decatur instantly cleared for action, and had started to meet the enemy, when the port captain was observed approaching as rapidly in his boat as his men could row, and with the white signal fluttering from the bow.
Another disturbing cause was the continual interference of General Halleck, who prevented several movements that Foote knew must have resulted in important successes.
A number of powerful British frigates were searching for the _Essex_, which had wrought such prodigious mischief.
But for the delay caused by his fight with Captain Reid he would have shut out General Jackson from the city and prevented his winning the most glorious land victory of the whole war.
Of course the Spanish spies were on the watch in Hong Kong, and while the American squadron was steaming out of the bay the news was telegraphed to the authorities at Manila, who knew that the real destination of the enemy was that city.
The picture of Admiral Farragut thus lashed to the rigging has been seen thousands of times in the histories of the Civil War.
Most of the shots from the British vessels were directed against Perry's flagship, which suffered considerably.
The post was held by the Unionists throughout the war and was the only one south of Mason and Dixon's line so held.
Indeed, Stewart, as is often the case with aged persons, remarked that his memory of occurrences a half century old was unerring, while of quite recent incidents it was unreliable.
The Americans, most of them barefooted and stripped to the waist, were standing beside their guns eager and impatient for the order to fire, but Hull, when appealed to, shook his head.
Farragut signalled to the vessels to run her down and ordered the pilot of the _Hartford_ to drive her with full speed at the ironclad.
While there, he learned that the Confederate force occupying Columbus had evacuated the town and fortified themselves on Island No.
Somers, though cool and composed, seemed to feel a presentiment that he would not return.
This concession only whetted the barbarian's appetite, and his next step was to order the consul to leave the country, since he was not honest enough to make his residence in the Dey's dominions congenial to the latter.
Deprived of his 18-pound guns by reason of the accident mentioned, Jones was forced to rely upon his 12-pounders.
The impatient crew was compelled to withdraw and wait for a week before the weather moderated.
The necessary commands were spoken in whispers, and the waiting men scarcely moved as they peered into the deep gloom and listened to the almost inaudible rippling of the water from the bow.
From Tannery to White House; Life of Ulysses S.
It was virtually a repetition of the more emphatic command of Farragut in Mobile Bay, uttered thirty-four years before.
A few days later an exploring party was again attacked while trying to trade with the natives.
He received the thanks of Congress and was promoted to be a commander for his services with the _Monitor_.
The news of what the _Merrimac_ had done was telegraphed throughout the South and North.
The _Olympia_ had led the way into the harbor, and she now headed for the centre of the Spanish fleet.
The other stockade was in flames, which were burning so fast that the Americans themselves were in danger from them.
The following titles are published by us: ALL ABOARD; or, Life on the Lake.
The picket boat in which Lieutenant Cushing undertook to destroy the rebel ram was built at New York under his supervision, and taken to Norfolk by way of the canals, and thence to Albemarle Sound again by canal.
The Spanish fleet on the other side of the globe had been destroyed and now the second fleet was wiped out.
When the congregation were about to break up and pass out a stranger, sitting near the front, quietly arose, walked up the pulpit steps, gave out the opening hymn, led in prayer and preached a sermon which impressed all by its plain, practical truths.
Undaunted the remainder of the assailants rushed through and drove the defenders to a high platform, where they made their final stand.
It was an exasperating disappointment, but Decatur opened with a heavy fire, hoping to disable his antagonist before the arrival of the others.
The fighting on the ocean, beginning in 1798, continued for two years and a half.
A remarkable book with a remarkable sale.
He was made a captain in 1806, and the following year was given command of the _Constitution_.
The expedition against New Orleans was prepared with great care, and so many months were occupied that the enemy had all the notice they could ask in which to complete their preparations for its defence.
Winslow, the subject of this sketch, however, was a Southerner by birth, being a native of Wilmington, North Carolina, where he was born November 19, 1811.
On the _Wasp_ 5 were killed and 5 wounded; on the _Frolic_ 15 were killed and 47 wounded, the latter being completely riddled.
In the month of February, 1831, the _Friendship_, a trading vessel from Salem, Mass., lay at anchor off the town, taking on board a cargo of pepper.
He hurried to Washington and applied for active service.
Those eyes seemed to look backward over the vista of forty, fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty years, and must have recalled the many stirring scenes in which he had taken part, as well as the faces of the brave fellows, like himself, who had gone from earth long ago, leaving him alone.
Soon, however, she changed her conduct and gallantly advanced to engage the _Countess of Scarborough_.
Captain Foote's next move was to Fort Pillow.
Captain Porter's next act was still more audacious.
It was near noon, while the American squadron was chasing a British brigantine and was approaching Flamborough Head from the south, that a large sail was discovered, rounding that promontory from the south.
He put on every stitch of canvas, threw overboard everything that could be spared and wet his sails, but the _President_ was so badly crippled from having run aground that, despite all that was done, she steadily lost ground.
"I am accused of being a pirate, robber and thief," he exclaimed, "and you are doing all you can to justify the charges.
The Confederate loss was 12 killed, 20 wounded and 280 prisoners.
The First Serious Engagement--Loss of the Philadelphia--The Scheme of Captain Bainbridge--Exploit of Lieutenant Decatur.
Like England at the present time, she had colonies in all parts of the globe, and had she not been so cruel and unwise in the treatment of her dependencies, would still have retained a great deal of her former greatness and power; but she is one of the few nations that never learn from experience, and a short time after our second war with Great Britain her South American colonies began revolting against her, and one by one they gained their independence.
Apparently it was nothing but a blank sheet of paper, but knowing that lemon juice had been employed for ink, the Commodore held it before a flame and brought out the following, in the handwriting of Bainbridge: "Charter a small merchant schooner, fill her with men and have her commanded by fearless and determined officers.
The position was the most difficult conceivable to carry from the river, because of the plunging shots from the enormous guns on the bluff above.
He shouted back a defiant negative, and, pistol in hand, ordered his men to the guns, threatening to kill the first one who refused.
England is now our best friend, and no doubt will always remain so.
Distrustful at first, though they ceased firing, the Tripolitans finally came aboard, plundered the officers and men of their personal property, and then took them--three hundred and fifteen in all--to the city, where they were lodged in prison.
In May the other members of the squadron arrived at the port, with the exception of the _Sea Gull_, which was never heard of again.
In the attempt, his vessel was completely disabled by a storm.
He had not only lost the _Essex_, but Fort Donelson was greatly superior in strength to Fort Henry.
It ricochetted past the _Lawrence_.
Upon sending an officer to take possession, it was found that the captured vessel was the English 32-gun frigate _Cyane_.
Pangborn gave a detailed history of the occurrence, to which Dr.
The son also served on the _Constellation_ in the Tripolitan war, and afterward gave his attention to ordnance.
They reflected the passions of their sections, and, being young and impulsive, there were hot words and fierce blows.
Then the firing became more rapid, the enemy possessing the advantage at long range.
Though extinguished as promptly as before, the sentinels knew something was wrong and signalled to the batteries below that one of the boats of the enemy was approaching.
The American ships, in order to disconcert the aim of the batteries of the enemy, moved slowly in their terrible ellipses or loops, their sides spouting crimson flame and answered by the shots of the Spaniards, who fought with a courage deserving of all praise.
Like all the other officers and sailors who took part in the destruction of Cervera's fleet, he was energetic, skilful, brave and chivalrous, for when Captain Eulate, of the captured _Vizcaya_, offered his sword to the Captain of the _Iowa_ that gentleman kindly waved him back and told him to keep the weapon he had used so well.
[Illustration: COMMODORE DAVID GLASGOW FARRAGUT.] Being a stranger in that neighborhood, he was regarded with suspicion.
Our Naval War with France--The Tribute Paid to the Barbary States by Christian Nations--War Declared Against the United States by Tripoli--Bainbridge, Decatur, Stewart, Dale and Preble.
He kept his men busy night and day and had it finished a day or two before the completion of the _Merrimac_.
The name of that boy was David Glasgow Farragut, and he became the greatest naval officer of the American navy.
A British frigate was in hot pursuit of the American, which was straining every nerve to escape, but would not have been able to do so except for Jones, who ran in between the two, and, firing into the frigate, induced her to let the American go and chase him.
Admiral Cervera himself helped to take Hobson out of the water and was so filled with admiration of the extraordinary daring of himself and companions that he sent a flag of truce to Admiral Sampson with the welcome news that all the men were safe in his hands.
It was in this fearful struggle that Ensign "Bob" Evans, who was with the naval force that charged up the unprotected beach, was so frightfully wounded that it was believed he could not live.
He hauled off and put on every stitch of sail and the frigate did the same.
Gunboat _Marquis Del Duero_, built in 1875, iron, 500 tons, 10 knots, and mounting one 6.2-inch and two 4.7-inch rifles.
NEW YORK HURST & COMPANY PUBLISHERS Copyright, 1899, BY JOHN HOVENDON.
Books sure to be a delight to every boy and girl who becomes the proud possessor of any or all of them.
Then the second ship repeated the attempt of its consort, but Stewart not only defeated her, but again laid the _Constitution_ so as to rake her.
You will save considerable money by taking advantage of our Special Discounts, which we offer to those whose purchases are large enough to warrant us in making a reduction.
George Dewey was the most battered of the lot and made a sorry sight.
[Illustration] =Dictionaries of the English Language= A dictionary is a book of reference; a book that is constantly looked into for information on various meanings and pronunciations of the several thousand words of our language.
Write for our Complete Catalogue.
His conduct was so gallant in the war with Mexico that he was publicly complimented by Commodore Matthew C.
A running fight followed, but the _President_ was overmatched in every respect.
=HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.= [Illustration] Mirthful Books Worth Reading!
Where did they come from and what gave rise to the ocean nuisances?
Captain Decatur lay in the harbor of New York with his vessels and found himself so closely blockaded by the British squadron that it was impossible for the Americans to sail in company.
The white flag was raised, and the sorely battered _Tennessee_ became the captive of the Union fleet.
When brought to the side of the _Constitution_, Hull assisted him up the rope ladder.
In a cruise of sixty days he made nine captures, recaptured five privateers and merchantmen, and arrived in the Delaware early in September.
The publishers consider themselves fortunate in being able to offer such a marvelous line of choice subjects, made up into attractive presentation volumes.
Captain Porter and Major Farragut were old friends, to which fact was due the privilege extended to a lad of such tender years.
Then, when there was a change of direction, parties of marines were observed in her tops, muskets in hand, coolly awaiting the time when the ships would engage at close quarters.
Better still, many young officers, brave, skilful and glowing with patriotic ardor, were serving on those ships.
The _Cumberland_ let fly with her terrific broadsides, which were powerful enough to sink the largest ship afloat, but the tons of metal hurled with inconceivable force skipped off the greased sides of the iron roof and scooted away for hundreds of yards through the startled air.
While he was doing so, the poor fellow was torn into pieces by a shot, and the captain himself was badly wounded in the foot by a flying splinter.
She was left with three 9-pounders, which, being loaded and aimed under the eye of Jones himself, did frightful execution on the deck of the enemy.
Reid, born in Connecticut in 1783, and died in 1861.
Of course, he set his own valuation on what he received, which was generally about one-half of what they cost our Government, but we made no complaint.
Banks succeeded at last in reaching New Orleans, where he was relieved of his command.
During my fight with the _Cyane_ and _Levant_ I was walking back and forth with this sword under my arm, the hilt slightly projecting in front of my chest, when a grapeshot slipped it off, as it grazed me.
The garrison made one of the bravest defences of the whole war, and the hand-to-hand fight was of the most furious character.
Commodore Dewey's squadron lay at anchor in the harbor of Hong Kong, awaiting the momentous news from Washington.
The captain, like all Orientals, began to quibble to gain time, asking that the commissioners should land and conduct the negotiations on shore.
Congress gave Captain Jones a vote of thanks, and, had the war continued, no doubt he would have rendered more brilliant service for the country he loved so well, but before he could be given a fitting command hostilities ceased.
These vessels were usually schooners or brigs of 200 or 300 tons, with crews varying from 75 to 100 men.
A second and part of a third broadside were delivered, with no perceptible effect.
The news was just in time to help in the universal rejoicing and celebration of the Fourth of July.
He did a good deal of serious thinking throughout the day, and saw and felt his wrongdoing.
If one moved, he did so on tiptoe.
He recovered from his terrible wound and did excellent service in the war of 1812.
Tripoli and Tunis were not so active, but believing the British boast that they would sweep the American navy from the seas, they allowed the warships of that nation to recapture several prizes that the American privateers had sent into their ports.
Without swerving an inch or halting, Dewey signalled to the other vessels to pay no attention to the torpedoes, but to steam straight ahead.
Speed was reduced as they drew near Plymouth, in order to lessen the soft clanking of the engine or the motion of the screw.
[Illustration: DAVID DIXON PORTER.] One of the most important captures of the war was that of New Orleans, in the spring of 1862.
Death and destruction raged on every hand, and still the terrible _Kearsarge_ kept working nearer, the dearest wish of Winslow being to get to close quarters.
Published as follows: =Popular Price Edition, Cloth, 60c., Postpaid.= =Quarto Edition, with Six Colored Plates, Cloth, $1.25, Postpaid.= We guarantee that you will not suffer from "the blues" after reading this book.
The Secretary of the Navy always had a tender spot in his heart for the daring fellow, and when Cushing promised that if he would give him a chance he would prove himself worthy of the Secretary's confidence, that official consented and attached him to the North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
American Diamond Dictionary, (Small--adaptable to ladies) 40c.
Under a full head of steam, the _Albemarle_ rammed her iron beak clean into the fire room of the _Southfield_.
Our Government saw that in self-defense they must be wiped out, for they grew bolder with every month and made it unsafe for our commerce in those waters.
The second was also beached and deserted by her crew.
He lived fully twenty years after the death of his beloved commander, dying at a good old age, though he was scarred with sabre cuts, wounded times innumerable by bullets, and compelled to suffer the amputation of a leg.
It consisted of 5 frigates, 6 sloops of war and 1 schooner--all carrying 360 guns, which exceeded those of the American squadron by 50 per cent.
Then the forts attempted to fire on the Americans, but their guns were spiked.
By that time the defences of Mobile were well nigh impregnable.
Or, the publishers will send all three, postpaid, upon receipt of $2.50.
The boat had nearly reached the stranded vessel when it was caught in one of the tropical tempests, which sometimes appear with cyclonic suddenness in that part of the world.
The remainder of the men refused to serve the other guns, and thus the _Bonhomme Richard_ was deprived of the services of her heaviest battery, in addition to the serious loss in dead and wounded.
Toward the close of the day white flags were displayed and the firing ceased.
Sampson was born in Palmyra, N.Y., February 9, 1840.
Her mizzen topgallant mast had been carried away, but it looked as if all the other shots sent in her direction sped past without harm.
He was chased many times and often fired into, but the _Providence_ was always swift enough to show a clean pair of heels to her pursuers and Jones himself was such a fine sailor that he laughed at their efforts to take him prisoner.
A New Era for the United States Navy--Opening of the Great Civil War--John Lorimer Worden--Battle Between the _Monitor_ and _Merrimac_--Death of Worden.
On board the ship were a number of American seamen, who began speculating among themselves as to whether the approaching frigate was a Frenchman or belonged to their own country.
Such was the narrow chance by which one of the most destructive conflagrations of British shipping was averted.
At the end of that time the Southerner was so thoroughly trounced that he was unable to continue the fight.
Captain Downes now brought his long 32-pounders to bear and opened a bombardment of Qualla Battoo which spread destruction and death among the natives.
One Sunday morning early in the Civil War a large assemblage had gathered in a prominent church in a Western city for the purpose of worship.
The daring conduct of this officer brought a tribute from one of our poets, which contains the stanzas: "Who has not heard of the dauntless _Varuna_?
The smoke of his vessels was discerned over the hills, and the watchful ships outside signalled the fact to the other members of the squadron.
Dewey in the War with Spain.
Then it was that one of our commissioners made the memorable reply: "Millions for defence, but not one cent for tribute." Our representatives were driven out of France and the capture of our vessels by French cruisers continued.
The vessels under command of Admiral Montojo were the following: _Reina Cristina_--Cruiser (flagship).
When it became clear that the _Guerriere_ could make no further resistance, Captain Hull drew off to repair the damages to his own ship.
Leaving a force to engage the fort in front, Lieutenant Shubrick led a body of sailors through the woods to the rear with the 6-pounder which had been brought from the frigate.
A good many buccaneers were destroyed, including several leaders of the buccaneers whose atrocious deeds had long made their names a terror.
The authorities felt some uneasiness, but were far from suspecting the terrible power for destructiveness possessed by the monster.
The American was astern of the _Drake_, and, to show his earnestness, Captain Jones ordered his helm put up and let fly with a broadside.
_Don Juan de Austria_--Small cruiser, completed in 1887, iron, 1,152 tons, 13 to 14 knots, and four 4.7-inch rifles in her main battery.
A hot chase followed, and the Turks soon opened on the American flagship and wounded several men, but Decatur reserved his fire until able to deliver one of his fearful broadsides.
The Bomb Ketch--A Terrible Missile--Frightful Catastrophe--Diplomacy in Place of War--Peace.
The Americans now being at the front and rear of the fort, a simultaneous attack was made.
Since the war with Spain was undertaken for the liberation of Cuba from the most frightful atrocities that mind can conceive, it was natural that the chief attention of our Government should be directed to the expulsion of the Spaniards from that island.
Guns, main battery, two 8-inch and six 6-inch rifles; secondary battery, rapid-fire, two 6-pounders and two 3-pounders.
No doubt this liking was influenced by her hatred of England, for the nations had been bitter rivals for years.
Dewey was a man of deep religious convictions.
When the surgeon made ready to amputate his shattered leg, Bob, who had secured possession of a loaded revolver, swore he would shoot any man who touched the limb with such purpose.
This was done, Porter protecting the expedition which effected it.
This was a precaution which would not have occurred to every man in the situation of Commander Boggs.
All naval operations have proven that, as a rule, ships are comparatively powerless for aggressive work against forts and batteries on shore.
A youth can be combative, personally brave and aggressive, and still be a good student, as was proven by the graduation of Dewey, fifth in a class of fourteen.
Whenever a war is under way a number of persons on each side are certain to come forward with ingenious schemes for injuring their opponents, through improvements upon the accepted methods of conducting hostilities.
The wind fell and the little craft crept slowly through the water, seemingly into the very jaws of death, until the outlines of the silent frigate loomed to sight through the gloom.
Torpedoes were stretched across the channel and the bay abounded with enough mines and torpedoes, it would seem, to blow any fleet of ironclads to atoms as soon as it dared to try to force an entrance into the waters.
The entrance to the immense bay is seven miles wide and contains two islands, Corregidor and Caballo, both of which were powerfully fortified, the works containing a number of modern guns.
Her crew numbered 16 officers and 42 men, with Lieutenant S.
All merchant vessels carried some kind of armament against pirates in that part of the world.
The dispatches intrusted to Lieutenant Worden were orders for such reinforcements to be made.
We publish the titles named below: +------------------------------++--------------------------+ | Cash Boy, || Ralph Raymond's Heir, | | Erie Train Boy, || Young Outlaw, | | Risen from the Ranks, || Tom, the Boot Black, | | Bound to Rise, || Paul, the Peddler, | | Slow and Sure, || Only an Irish Boy, | | Julius, the Street Boy, || Strive and Succeed, | | Phil, the Fiddler, || Strong and Steady, | | Brave and Bold, || Young Acrobat.
Philip, promoted to the rank of commodore for his superb work with the _Texas_ off Santiago, is brave, modest, devout and fond of practical joking.
When, on April 19, 1775, the battle of Lexington opened the Revolution the Colonies did not possess a single ship with which to form the beginning of a navy.
He handled his ship with great skill, and Decatur feared he would succeed in reaching some neutral port or elude him in the night, which was near at hand.
It was a great personal misfortune that he happened to be absent from the front of Santiago when the Spanish fleet made its venture, but it must not be forgotten that, in anticipation of such action, he had planned the battle that was fought by the American ships.
Still creeping cautiously on, the outlines of the prodigious ram gradually assumed form in the gloom.
The cries that sounded across the harbor left no doubt of the effect of the fire of the American.
You know that one brave man always likes another who is as brave as himself, just as Northerners and Southerners love each other, and are all united under one flag, which one side defended and the other fought against, through long years, terrible years from 1861 to 1865.
The land troops numbered 15,000, and were in charge of General Benjamin F.
Instances of the bravery of these people were numerous, so much so that were I to give the detail of each event my description would probably become tiresome." The barricades stoutly resisted the fire.
Charles Stewart Boggs--His Coolness in the Presence of Danger--His Desperate Fight Below New Orleans--His Subsequent Services.
He was overwhelmed with work for a time, and was glad when, early in the autumn of 1861, he was ordered to the West to help in the building of an inland navy on the Mississippi.
It numbered one thousand and thirty-six vessels, of which two hundred and fifty-four were ships-of-the-line, not one of which carried less than seventy guns of large calibre.
The 32-gun frigate _Alliance_, Captain Landais, was put under the orders of Captain Jones and a third, the _Pallas_, was bought and armed with thirty guns.
In 1859 a Congressional Representative from Utah appointed him to the Naval Academy.
The Confederate flotilla must have lost as many men as the Unionists.
It being useless to attempt further disguise, he cleared for action and offered the _Minerva_ battle.
But how well he completed this grand work, he being the real supervisor and superintendent, has been referred to in a previous chapter and is told in every history of our country.
Commodore Dewey drew off to replenish his magazines, of whose shortness of supply he had received disturbing reports.
Smokeless powder was unknown in those days, and, as the vapor enfolded the ships, Farragut kept stepping up the rigging almost unconsciously until he was so high that he was clinging to the futtock shrouds.
Young Foote was then transferred to the sloop of war _Peacock_, which had made such a glorious record in the last war with Great Britain, his next transfer being to the frigate _United States_, the flagship of Commodore Isaac Hull, who won the famous victory over the _Guerriere_ in August, 1812.
Determined to rid himself of the dangerous prisoners, Captain Porter placed them on board the _Alert_ and sent them to Nova Scotia on parole.
A comparison of the crews and armaments of the _Kearsarge_ and _Alabama_ will show that they were pretty evenly matched, though the slight numerical superiority of the Union ship was emphasized by the fact that her men were almost wholly American, while those of Semmes, as already stated, were nearly all English.
Being a Roman Catholic, and unable to attend service, he requested a friend to go to mass and have it offered up for him, which was done.
The _Philadelphia_ was totally destroyed, and its remains still lie at the bottom of the harbor of Tripoli.
Farragut's intention was to lead with the flagship _Hartford_, but he reluctantly allowed the _Brooklyn_ to take that post, since she carried four chase guns to the _Hartford's_ one and was provided with an ingenious apparatus for picking up torpedoes.
Following with the second division, Captain Farragut did not reply to the fire of the forts for a quarter of an hour.
Captain Reid did not think the enemy would attack him, since the harbor was neutral, but the previous experience of his countrymen warned him that it was not safe to count upon the British respecting the laws of war when there was an opportunity to destroy one of the pests of the ocean.
The captain, however, deemed it his duty to remain with his convoy, and continued his course to Quebec, while Porter headed southward, afterward restoring his prize to its owners for a liberal ransom.
An Unexpected Preacher--Andrew Hull Foote--His Character and Early Career--His Brilliant Services in the War for the Union.
Consent was finally given, and then opened the wonderful career of our cruisers and privateers.
Some of them were ingenious, but none was the true one.
He was compelled to give way to Lieutenant Green, who handled the little ironclad throughout the remainder of the fight.
The object of the two was the same: the burning of the shipping.
There was not a word of censure upon his course.
Write for our Complete Book Catalogue.
The Confederates had completed a more terrible ironclad than the _Merrimac_, which they named the _Arkansas_.
He hurled a broadside into St.
The _Porpoise_ reached 100 degrees east and 64 degrees 65 minutes south when she turned her prow away from the inhospitable solitude and in March arrived at Auckland Isle.
We protested, but she paid no attention.
He entered the navy when sixteen years old and became a lieutenant in 1840.
Meanwhile ammunition and supplies were hurried across the continent to San Francisco as fast as express trains could carry them, and were sent thence by steamer to Hong Kong, where they were eagerly received by the waiting Commodore.
He made his preparations with great care, and on the night of October 27, which was dark and stormy, he started in his picket boat.
She proved the better sailer, and, though she gained slowly, it was surely, and in the course of a few hours she had approached within musket shot of the brig's lee quarter.
They were anxious, above everything else, to capture the most dreaded ship in the American navy.
He died in Paris in 1792.
To them the war with Tripoli offered the very opportunity for which they longed.
By this time the slower going monitors had arrived and were getting in their fine work.
The _Hornet_ wore round to bring her broadside to bear, and was on the point of opening fire, when the surviving officer of the _Penguin_ called out that they surrendered.
Instead of landing he determined to blow up the ram.
When he understood everything, he showed his good sense by thanking the teacher for having administered the punishment, asking him to repeat it whenever the conduct of his son made it necessary.
Disease of the eyes incapacitated him for duty for a long time, and he was much disappointed that he was not permitted to take any part in the Mexican war.
The Tripolitans ran in close and attempted to board, but were repulsed, and, under the fierce fire of the _Enterprise_, they again hauled down their flag.
Drop us a postal card for our Complete Catalogue.
In truth, she went down so quickly that very little damage was done to her.
Admiral Schley has done brilliant service outside of what is generally considered the routine duty of his profession.
From Farm House to White House; Life of George Washington.
[Illustration] He had been trained in the merchant service and had become a skilful sailor before he removed to Virginia, where he made his home.
The united efforts of both crews were necessary to extinguish the flames before they reached the magazine.
The chase lasted for more than two days and three nights, and it is safe to say that very few commanders placed in the situation of Captain Hull would have been able to save themselves from capture.
He had changed his plan.
He was rewarded for this service by a gold medal from Congress and promoted by President Arthur to chief of the Bureau of Equipment and made captain in 1888.
The breaking out of the Civil War offered so fascinating a field for him that he could not resist the temptation.
It will always be one of my pleasantest recollections that I was well acquainted with Stewart, and spent many hours talking with him about the stirring scenes in which he took part.
He occasionally preached, when there seemed to be a call for such work on his part, but preaching was not his profession, and he would not have thought of entering the pulpit had he not seen that it was a choice between doing so and allowing the congregation to go home.
The _Constitution_ was somewhat the superior, carrying 55 guns and four hundred and sixty-eight men, while the _Guerriere_ had 49 guns and two hundred and sixty-three men, but all of the latter were under fine discipline, while most of the Americans were green hands.
In this place it may be well to give the statistics of the _Alabama_, since the two vessels were so intimately associated in history.
Books That Command a Large Sale =_Black Rock_= _A Tale of the Selkirks_ By Ralph Connor, Author of "Sky Pilot," Etc.
Besides, he felt that his work was by no means finished in the far East, for, as has been shown, there was need of delicate diplomacy, prudence and statesmanship.
The loss of the Americans was 27 killed and 96 wounded, and that of the British 41 killed and 94 wounded.
When Captains Stewart and Bainbridge learned of this decision, they went to President Madison and his advisers and insisted that the American navy, weak as it was, should be given a chance of showing what it could do.
Shortly after this misfortune news reached this country of the signing of a treaty of peace, though several encounters took place on the ocean before the tidings could reach the various ships.
The launch crept along the river bank as silently as an Indian canoe stealing into a hostile camp.
The two ships now began exchanging shots, but the distance was too great for any damage on either side.
As might be supposed, George Dewey was prominent in these affrays, for it has been said of him that there was never a fight in his neighborhood without his getting into the thickest of it.
Fortunately the blow was a glancing one, though it opened a rent seven feet long and four inches deep in the steamer, which, being caught by the swift current on her starboard bow, was swept across to the Fort Jackson side of the river, so close indeed that her gunners and those in the fort exchanged curses and imprecations.
One killed and two wounded is her report; and one marine fell overboard, his cries for help being heard on board the other ships as they passed by, unable to save him." If the capture of the batteries was impossible, their passage was almost equally so.
Impetuously boarding the first craft, after a discharge from his long boat, he engaged the numerous crew in a furious hand-to-hand struggle, in which all were made prisoners or forced to leap into the sea to save themselves.
He speedily proved his physical superiority over Decatur, for he not only parried the lunge of the pike, but wrenched it from his hand.
Captures Made After the Signing of the Treaty of Peace--The Privateers--Exploit of the _General Armstrong_--Its Far-Reaching Result.
In those days all, of course, were sailing vessels, and they carried nothing in the shape of armor.
The governments of those two countries threw every possible obstacle in his way.
The Malays, still fighting, shrieked out their defiant cries.
At the beginning of hostilities, the Tripolitans placed great reliance upon their ability to fight at close quarters.
The sea drove her higher upon the rocks, and she careened so much that all the guns became useless.
On the first night out the _Alliance_ and _Bonhomme Richard_ collided and were obliged to return to port for repairs.
They had formed the formidable plan of extending the Dominion of Canada along the Ohio and Mississippi rivers to the Gulf of Mexico, thus inserting an immense wedge between the United States and the great West, which has since become so important a part of our country.
Hard, however, as was the road for Dewey to travel, he never shrank or turned aside, for he knew the same path had been traveled by all who had gone before him, and he reasoned that what man had done man could do, and he did it.
It was so delicate and dangerous a duty, since Worden was compelled to make his way through the South which was aflame with secession excitement, that he committed the dispatches to memory and then destroyed them.
He made continued efforts to do so, and frequently got on their track, but finally had to give it up.
It was in the same battle.
He went to his brother's home in Cleveland, where his condition caused great solicitude throughout the country.
Fire being opened on Fort Gaines, it also surrendered.
"Now throw your guns and powder after your flag," shouted Sterrett.
Commodore Dewey felt that the first duty of an officer is to obey, and after a farewell dinner given by his friends at the Metropolitan Club in Arlington, he hurriedly completed his preparations, and, starting for Hong Kong, duly reached that port, where, on January 3, 1898, he hoisted his flag on the _Olympia_.
After brief service on the storeship _Potomac_ he was promoted to master in 1861, and served on the _Winona_, of the West Gulf blockading squadron, 1862-63.
The little fellow was never wider awake in his life; but he kept his eyes closed and breathed regularly, so as to deceive the scoundrel, who slipped away to lead his companions in their murderous uprising.
He received honorable mention for his services in the engagements which led to the capture of Port Hudson.
In each of the _Constitution's_ tops were seven marines, six loading for the seventh, who was the best marksman.
LITTLE BY LITTLE; or, The Cruise of the Flyaway.
He is the ninth generation from John Winslow, brother of Edward Winslow, Governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony, and the founder, as may be said, of Plymouth Rock itself.
Captain Porter placed an officer and crew in charge of the prize, with instructions to make the nearest American port.
Now I suspect that if my young readers were asked to name the nations with which, at one time or another we have been at war, they would not be likely to include France in the list.
Feeling himself unjustly treated, Captain Porter resigned and entered the Mexican navy, where he remained until 1829.
The French pilots were forbidden to serve the _Kearsarge_, and Captain Winslow had to be his own pilot--something he was well able to do because of his familiarity with the coasts.
In middle life he gave up the practice of medicine and founded the National Life Insurance Company, to whose interests he devoted his time and ability, and met with a good degree of success.
SAMPSON.] Just one month after this exploit, that is on the morning of July 3, 1898, Admiral Cervera attempted to escape from the harbor of Santiago.
Captain Foote reluctantly gave his consent.
_Don Antonio de Ulloa_--Small cruiser, iron, 1,152 tons.
Stewart started for home with his prizes, and early in March anchored in Port Praya.
We all know the uneasiness that prevailed for weeks over the destination of the Spanish fleet under Admiral Cervera.
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington and other seaboard cities made powerful preparations against the dread fleet, which in truth was no more to be feared than the ferryboats on the North River, and yet but for the preparations referred to it is more than probable we should have suffered.
The first port at which he stopped was Port Praya, where the Portuguese governor showed them much courtesy.
Reading his purpose, Semmes slowed his engines and sheered off, thus presenting his starboard battery to the _Kearsarge_.
He was one of the brilliant young officers who received his commission in 1798, and was commander of the _Argus_ during the war with Tripoli.
Night was closing in and the frigate being to windward, her outlines were indistinct.
About this time he was brought under religious influence.
The manner in which he baffled every effort of the two to rake him, while he repeatedly raked them, was one of the many proofs that the American navy contained no finer seaman than he.
Finally, after a long scrutiny, Jones's face lit up with exultation.
Jones incited his prisoners to desperate pumping by the report that the _Serapis_ must soon go down and that the only way to save themselves from drowning was to keep the _Bonhomme_ afloat.
On the Ohio shore General Harrison was waiting with an American force to invade Canada, if Perry gained a victory.
Altogether the loss was $40,000 to the owners of the ship and the captain was compelled to give up his voyage and return home.
Philip and Jackson was opened, which lasted for three days, without accomplishing anything decisive.
They were still a mile below Plymouth when the shadowy outlines of the wrecked _Southfield_ loomed dimly to view.
He had every quality to make him such.
He immediately ordered the 44-gun frigate _Potomac_ to that out of the way corner of the world, with instructions to punish the guilty parties concerned in the outrage.
_Castilla_--Cruiser, built in 1881, wood, 3,342 tons, 14 knots, and four 5.9-inch Krupps and two 4.7-inch Krupps in her main battery.
The _Drake_ replied and then the battle was on.
The main yard of the enemy was shot away in the slings, and hull, rigging and sails were badly mangled.
Both were models of chivalry and manly grace; both were held in the highest estimation in their profession.
Each carried a carronade, with which they opened fire on the privateer.
In the account of our war with Tripoli it has been shown that the young American navy performed brilliant service.
Dauntless as was the courage of the naval leader, he knew his task was a hopeless one.
For his superb work Cushing received a vote of thanks from Congress and was promoted to the rank of lieutenant commander.
The indignant Winslow drove all the French pilots off his ship, and by vigorous work got her off by daylight the next morning.
From that time forward the captures made by the _Essex_ were so numerous that the full story would be monotonous.
Those swift sailing vessels and their daring crews sailed out of Salem, Cape Ann, Newburyport, Bristol and other seacoast towns, and they did not have to hunt long before they found the richest sort of prizes.
Thayer, is a famous biographer, and writings from his pen have been sought and read with intense interest.
As he drew near his enemy, the latter continued firing, and some of her shots were so effective that the crews cheered.
When carried to the surgeon, the intensely suffering man smiled.
Our "new possessions" make it imperative that an understanding of these languages are a necessity, and these books will fill a long felt want.
There was indeed but one thing to do, and it was agreed to surrender.
A number of good ships had been added to our navy.
The _Niagara_, passing through the disorganized squadron, raked the vessels fore and aft, while the other American vessels promptly followed, and added to the confusion of the enemy and the dreadful destruction on board.
In that year Andrew Jackson became President of the United States.
When a mile apart, the _Detroit_, the British flagship, fired a shot to test the distance.
When it reached the commander it was accompanied by an order to capture or destroy the enemy's fleet at Manila.
He made several captures, and the frigates of the enemy began an industrious search for him, while all the lesser craft strained every nerve to keep out of his way.
Winslow neglected nothing in the way of preparation.
Never again can there be war between her and us, and it will not be strange that one of these days, if either gets into trouble, the American and English soldiers will "drink from the same canteen," which is another way of saying they will fight side by side, as they did a short time ago in Samoa.
I'm not old enough yet to need a cane." "I observe that; you are wonderfully spry for one of your years.
The launch was not stoned again.
When unable to struggle longer, Cushing let his feet drop and they touched bottom.
It had been agreed between Walke and Captain Foote that in case the former was successful, he was to make it known by firing minute guns.
One of his most practical temperance addresses was that, while engaged off the coast of Africa in suppressing the slave trade, he persuaded the men under him on the _Perry_, of which he was the commander, to give up the use of liquor.
The same books, without illustrations, bound in cloth, size 6  4-1/2, are offered at 50c., postpaid, or, all three for $1.00.
They held her locked in the port for months, but despite their unceasing vigilance, Captain Stewart, who was a consummate seaman, slipped out in December and sailed away.
At the wharf in Plymouth, where she was moored, a thousand soldiers were on guard, and her crew, consisting of sixty men, were alert and vigilant.
Porter was scalded and knocked senseless and twenty-nine officers and men were disabled or killed by the escaping steam.
Watson was born in Frankfort, Ky., August 24, 1842, and is a member of one of the leading families of the State.
The War for the Union ushered in a new era for the American navy.
The latter was skewered upon the projection and began slowly sinking.
These titles, though by different authors, also belong to this series of books: From Cottage to Castle; The Story of Gutenberg, Inventor of Printing.
"The engines were instantly reversed and the port guns run in in order to bring her on an even keel, while the fire from her starboard battery was reopened on the forts.
It mounted seven 10-inch, three 8-inch and twenty-two 32-pounder smoothbore guns and two 8-inch, two 6.5-inch and four 5.82-inch rifled guns.
The men were suffering not only from want of sufficient room but from the inadequacy of the clothing." Naturally the further south they penetrated the greater became their danger from the increasing fields of ice and icebergs.
Gay and John Woodman, Acting Assistant Paymaster Francis H.
All the time the rain was falling in torrents.
Despite the swarm of cruisers that were hunting for him, Jones passed unscathed through North Channel, along the western coast of Ireland and arrived at Brest, in France, within a month of the day he left the port, his cruise having been one of the most remarkable in naval history.
Wan, emaciated and hollow-eyed from their long and bitter imprisonment, they wept tears of joy and kissed the American flag that, coming so many thousand miles, had brought them deliverance.
Captain Jones suspected the errand and skilfully kept his broadsides turned away until the officer, determined to know his identity, went aboard.
This appalling disaster was accompanied by a touching incident.
Since the formidable vessel could not pursue both when they took different directions, she selected the _Hornet_ for her prize.
Amid the fearful din and peril Cushing cut the tow line and ordered the cutter to hasten down the river and capture the guard near the _Southfield_.
Taking advantage of the chance thus offered, the brig got safely away and then Jones himself dodged away from the frigate, which thus lost both.
The hoarse commands of officers rang out, and the soldiers, springing from sleep, caught up their guns and rushed to quarters.
One of the Most Memorable Sea Fights Ever Known--The Wonderful Exploit of Captain Paul Jones.
Built in 1887, iron, 3,090 tons, 14 to 17.5 knots, according to draught, and a main battery of six 6.2-inch rifles.
The total vessels of all kinds captured from the English by our cruisers and privateers was about 800.
Every rope and the deck, spars and rigging were thickly coated with ice.
Paying no heed to the bleeding member, he limped about the boat, swept by the iron hail, and gave his orders as coolly as before.
In the single year 1776 these privateers captured 342 British vessels and wrought great havoc among the English shipping.
There were others who fought with great bravery and did much to aid in the struggle for American independence, but none combined in such perfection the qualities of perfect seamanship, cool but dauntless courage and skill in fighting.
Captain Philip threw up his hand and called: "Don't cheer, boys; the poor fellows are dying!" It was chivalrous and thoughtful on the part of the American commander and will never be forgotten.
It was a keen disappointment and the party decided to compensate themselves so far as they could.
It was on the 28th of June, 1815, that the American fleet appeared off Algiers, and the commander signalled a request for the Swedish consul to come aboard.
But what of the ketch itself?
She was ablaze from bow to stern and her crew ran her ashore, where she blew up.
The Stars and Stripes fluttered in the breeze and there was a feeling of expectancy on board the grim engines of war, that had laid aside every possible encumbrance, and like prize-fighters were stripped to the buff and eager for battle.
It must not be supposed that while this furious hand-to-hand encounter was under way the respective crews were idle.
Guns, main battery, six 6-inch rifles.
He sent a shell toward the American vessels, but, in accordance with the rule, it went wide of the mark.
Boggs, who lived in New Brunswick, N.J., where a son was born to her in January, 1811, and named Charles Stuart.
"The candles have given out," was the reply to his angry inquiry.
This is due in a great measure to the bravery of our naval heroes, who did not fear to meet Great Britain, the "mistress of the seas," when her navy outnumbered ours one hundred to one.
She was an accomplished young woman, to whom the naval officer was married, October 24, 1867.
When his father died he made his home with his uncle in Washington, D.C., where he attended Gonzaga College.
Being uncertain of his identity, the captain of the _Drake_ sent an officer in a boat to learn the truth.
It was this plan which brought about the capture of Vicksburg by General Grant and the opening of the Mississippi River.
And nothing could be more repugnant than all this to the naval hero, who is as modest as he is brave.
"No" replied Hull, "I will not take it from one who knows so well how to use it, but I must trouble you to pay me that hat I have won." CHAPTER XII.
He ordered his men to their guns, and mentally resolved to finish the job without fail.
Then the battered and riddled old hulk plunged downward bow foremost into the depths of the German Ocean.
The shot and shell whistled about the _Hornet_, the enemy came closer, and every American prepared to submit as gracefully as possible to the inevitable.
Seconds were chosen, weapons provided and the ground paced off.
While there, three powerful British frigates approached, which, through a series of singular coincidences, were blockading Boston at the time the _Constitution_ made her escape some months before.
At intervals a gun was fired or a rocket sent up to guide the missing ones, but none appeared.
On the preceding two days the Confederates had made a determined attack on Plymouth, held by the Union forces, and the ironclad now set out to render assistance.
So it was that the old friends settled the question over which they had argued many times.
Jones, being in another part of the ship, did not hear him.
Walke ordered the engine ahead at full speed and ran close to the shore nearest the batteries, that their shot might pass over him.
He went with the division which set out to capture Tampico, but the city surrendered without a fight upon the approach of the boats.
Our Naval War with France--The Tribute Paid to the Barbary States by Christian Nations--War Declared Against the United States by Tripoli--Bainbridge, Decatur, Stewart, Dale and Preble.
It was inevitable that our gallant officers and men should meet with some defeats.
Dewey wanted to meet him and do some fighting that would recall his services when a lieutenant in the Civil War, and he saw no chance of securing the chance on the other side of the world, but Roosevelt was persistent, and, against the wishes of the Naval Board, he obtained his assignment as flag officer of the Asiatic squadron.
The _Pluton_ and _Furor_ fled before her, while the _Indiana_ shelled the first destroyer so mercilessly that she turned and headed for the mouth of the harbor, several miles distant.
The ships, having passed the latter, were about to anchor when the _Tennessee_ was perceived coming straight for the fleet, with the intention of attacking it.
The most formidable fleet was under the command of Admiral Cervera.
WE MAIL CATALOGUES TO ANYONE UPON REQUEST.
Having safely passed all obstructions, Captain Farragut steamed up to the river to New Orleans, and the city surrendered April 25, formal possession being taken on May 1.
Dayton, at Paris, notifying Captain Winslow that the _Alabama_ had arrived at Cherbourg.
A Daring Attempt by Captain Paul Jones--Why It Failed--A Bold Scheme--Why It Did Not Succeed--The Fight Between the _Ranger_ and _Drake_.
The large shot came against the ship's side, shaking her to the very keel, and passing through her timbers and scattering terrific splinters, which did more appalling work than the shot itself.
His recollection of the incident, more than sixty years afterward, was as vivid as on the succeeding day.
The Malays received them with a brisk discharge of cannon, muskets, javelins and arrows.
There they were attacked with the same impetuosity, but they fought like tigers, and it was not until twelve had been killed and a great many wounded that they were overcome.
Pope's arrival below made it necessary to send a gunboat down to him, for until that was done he could make no movement against the rebel force there.
Now, if there was anything which Paul Jones loved it was to fight.
Lieutenant Boggs ordered the single white shirt in the party to be torn up, tied on the end of a boathook and displayed as a flag of truce.
Although wounded, he stood unflinchingly to his guns, winning the admiration of the grim heroes around him and demonstrating the wonderful qualities which later were to raise him to the position of the foremost naval hero of the age.
Gradually the boats drifted nearer and the Americans were able to make use of their short guns and small arms.
Every American safely reached the _Siren_, waiting anxiously outside.
Her enormous weight made her draw more than twenty feet of water and when she was moving slowly through the bay or river her appearance suggested the mansard roof of a vast house.
He gave chase, but the coast was dangerous, abounding with shoals and reefs, with which the fugitive vessel was familiar, while Captain Bainbridge had to keep sounding and regulating his speed in accordance with the degree of danger.
Calmly watching everything in his field of vision, and knowing when the exact moment arrived for the beginning of the appalling work, Commodore Dewey, cool, alert, attired in white duck uniform and a golf cap, turned to Captain Gridley and said in his ordinary conversational tone: "Gridley, you may fire when ready." A series of sharp, crackling sounds followed, like exploding Chinese crackers, and then the thunderous roars and a vast volume of smoke rolled over the bay and enveloped the warships that were pouring their deadly fire into the Spanish vessels.
Under the protection of Fort Morgan nestled the Confederate rams and ironclads, which directed their fire principally at the wooden vessels.
When the furnace blast of secession swept over the country, the most intimate friends--in many cases brothers--became the deadliest of enemies.
The flagship had been struck 59 times, and 54 had been killed and wounded on the different ships; but Foote would have maintained the fight, with a fair probability of success, but for the destruction of his steering gear.
She was fast settling, and while the only two serviceable boats of the _Kearsarge_ were hurrying to the relief of the crew, the famous cruiser threw her prow high in air and slid stern foremost into the depths of the Atlantic.
Then, the _Albatross_ backing and the _Hartford_ going ahead strong with the engine, her head was fairly pointed up the stream, and she passed by without serious injury.
The _Don Juan de Austria_ was the centre of the heaviest fire, and suddenly a part of the deck flew upward in the air, carrying with it scores of dead and wounded.
He was still at it, when, through the smoke, he caught sight of the swarthy captain, leaping up and down on the deck, swinging his arms and shrieking in broken English that he had surrendered.
Had he not been made of the right stuff he never could have held such a position when a very young man.
In addition, several of the merchantmen were heavily armed.
It seemed like the idea of a man bereft of his senses, but there was not the slightest hesitation on his part.
So quickly did this singular glow come and vanish that it must have been mistaken by the sentinels for a part of the lightning display, for it caused no alarm; but the turning of the escape steam into the paddle-box had allowed the soot to get dry, and they flamed up a second time.
This great invention was a novelty, and, like many others of a similar nature, it required considerable time for it to come into use.
They were among the best in the world, but their leaders were of no account.
Two were quickly killed and three made prisoners.
Meanwhile the _Rappahannock_, which had greatly overstayed her time, was ordered by the French authorities to leave.
Reaching the south side of the harbor, he came upon a small fort garrisoned by a few soldiers.
The _Merrimac_ carried ten guns, which fired shells and had a crew of 300 men, under the command of Commodore Franklin Buchanan, a former officer of the United States navy.
The weather was intensely cold and the snow and fine sleet which were whirled horizontally through the air cut the face like bird shot.
To quote the words of Commodore Boggs: "In fifteen minutes from the time the _Varuna_ was struck by the _Stonewall Jackson_, she was on the bottom, with only her topgallant forecastle out of the water." But those were exceedingly lively minutes for the _Varuna_ and the other craft in her neighborhood.
The principal defences below the city were Forts Jackson and St.
This gave the latter a chance to bring its Long Tom into play, and it was served with such unerring accuracy that not a shot missed.
They were treacherous, cruel and merciless to the last degree.
On the 1st of March considerable ice and snow were encountered and an island sighted, but the men could not land because of the surf.
His services in the Mexican War were unimportant and he was a first lieutenant of the Brooklyn Navy Yard when the Civil War broke out.
But the _Gloucester_ seemed to bear a charmed life, or, more truthfully speaking, the Spanish gunners didn't know how to shoot.
Alice in Wonderland and Through Mother Goose, Complete.
Other books by the same author are _The Crucifixion of Philip Strong_ _Robert Hardy's Seven Days_ Prices, postpaid, cloth binding, 30 cents; paper binding, 15 cents.
"You first," said Craven, halting.
Captain Pearson, of the _Serapis_, waited until his convoy was beyond danger, when he tacked inshore.
Having landed in civilian clothes, the authorities accused him of being an impostor and ordered him to show his commission.
The comparative strength of the two vessels was as follows: The _Ranger_ carried 18 guns and 123 men, the _Drake_ 20 guns and 160 men, a number of the latter being volunteers for the fight, which lasted one hour and four minutes, at the end of which time the _Ranger_ had lost two killed and six wounded and the _Drake_ forty-two killed.
[Illustration: BATTLE BETWEEN THE "UNITED STATES" AND THE "MACEDONIAN."] Finally the American ceased firing and drew off to make the few repairs that were necessary.
At the beginning of February, 1862, he started from Cairo to ascend the Tennessee, his objective point being Fort Henry, though the Confederates were deceived into thinking it was Columbus, on the Mississippi.
He knew the skill of his men in marksmanship, and determined to hold his fire until the most advantageous position was reached.
One of the most marked traits in young Boggs was his perfect coolness in times of peril and his instant perception of the best thing to do.
Some days later a powerful northerly wind partly lifted the _Philadelphia_ off the rocks, and by united efforts her captors succeeded in getting her into deep water.
He was a voluntary chaplain and gave a religious address on the berth deck every Sunday evening to those who wished to listen.
Leaping to his feet, his face aflame with rage, he went at the Green Mountain Boy, who coolly awaited his attack, and they proceeded instantly to mix it up for some fifteen minutes in the most lively manner conceivable.
During the fight this part of the ship was hit only twice, so that the protection, if it be considered such, bore an unimportant part in the battle itself.
Many heroes are referred to as fearless, but that man is reckoned brave who knows the full extent of the danger facing him, and yet does not hesitate to meet it; but Cushing was a youth who really seemed to love danger for its own sake, and never flinched while death was on every hand, but went unhesitatingly forward, when it would have been no reflection upon his courage had he turned about and run.
There are many honored names connected with the American navy, but his towers above them all.
He formed a desperate scheme that was characteristic of him.
The action had hardly begun when the _Wasp_ lost her main topmast, and a few minutes later the mizzen topgallant mast and the gaff were shot away.
Then an officer was sent in a boat to communicate the orders of the Commodore to the other vessels.
During this memorable fight a shell from the _Merrimac_ lifted the iron plate of the pilot house of the _Monitor_ and disabled Lieutenant Worden by driving the fragments into his face, while he was peering out of the peep-hole.
The wish was general that he should return home in order that his countrymen might have opportunity to show their appreciation of him and to give him fitting honors.
Greely commanded an expedition of twenty-five men, which established an observation station at the farthest point in the polar regions then attained.
Such is far from being the case, for he is deliberate, thoughtful and tactful.
He wrote to Benjamin Franklin, expressing himself plainly on that point, and the American commissioner, after several months' delay, had a ship of 40 guns placed under the command of Jones.
In approaching them Porter had his ships dressed out with leaves and branches of trees, the clever disguise proving an effectual protection from a very destructive fire.
In the midst of the wild confusion a boat from the _Alabama_, under charge of the English master's mate, came alongside, announcing that the _Alabama_ had surrendered and begging for help.
These incidents attest the personal daring of Admiral Dewey, of whom it has been said that he never showed fear of any living man.
On the promise of this man to return, Winslow allowed him to go back to the aid of the drowning crew, but instead of keeping his pledge, he took refuge on the yacht _Deerhound_, which was circling about and doing all it could for the struggling wretches in the water.
Doubling the Cape of Good Hope, the expedition reached New York in June, 1842, having been gone nearly four years and having sailed more than 30,000 miles.
The American consul, who understood all the particulars, proposed to our government to use the deposed ruler as an instrument to compel the usurper to make terms.
Every man had been killed by the explosion of the ketch.
All arrangements being completed, the signal for the advance was hoisted at daylight, August 5, 1864.
The iron prow of the _Merrimac_ crashed through the wooden walls of the _Cumberland_ as if they were cardboard, and, while her crew were still heroically working their guns, the _Cumberland_ went down, with the red flag, meaning "no surrender," flying from her peak.
Every possible effort was made to release the ship, but she was too firmly spiked on the jagged reef to be budged, and the dreaded peril speedily appeared.
It is proper to give at this point the respective strength of the American and Spanish fleets.
Those which impinged against the pilot house or turret did no harm, while the lesser boat was able to dart here and there at will, dodging the _Merrimac_ and ramming her when she chose, though such tactics accomplished nothing.
A few minutes later the mainmast and foremast fell.
* * * * * Through the bright sunshine and when the stars twinkled in the sky or the full moon rode overhead, the American ships steamed to the southeast across the heaving China Sea.
She was known to have a formidable navy and a great many believed it was superior to our own.
It seemed as if every shot splintered some part of the rigging or hull and killed and wounded men right and left.
The novel battle continued for four hours, when the _Merrimac_, unable to defeat her nimble antagonist, steamed back to Norfolk and the strange contest--the first between ironclads--was over.
HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.
They now parted company, and Jones directed his men to row for the south side of the harbor, while the Lieutenant was to make for the north shore.
Gunboats _Paragua_, _Callao_, _Samar_, _Pampagna_, and _Arayat_, built 1881-6, steel, 137 tons, 10 knots, and each mounting two quick-firing guns.
Indeed, its blockade was a nullity, despite the most determined efforts of the Union fleet to keep it closed.
The bombardment of Tripoli was less successful than expected.
He belonged to a prominent family, his father, Samuel A.
Guns, main battery, four 8-inch, six 6-inch, slow-fire; secondary battery, rapid-fire, four 6-pound, two 3-pound, two 1-pound, four 37 MM.
Oliver Hazard Perry was born in Rhode Island in 1785, and entered the American navy as midshipman when fourteen years old, under his father, Captain Christopher Raymond Perry, who commanded the 28-gun ship _General Greene_, which did good service in the war against France.
The response was prompt, for his daring spirit was infectious, and he instructed the others, in the event of him and his comrades being attacked, to make no attempt to help them.
The _Hartford_, like all the vessels, was subjected to a terrible fire, was assailed by the Confederate ironclads, and more than once was in imminent danger of being sent to the bottom.
Captain Biddle threw overboard some of his heavy spars, cut away the sheet anchor and flung several tons of kentledge into the sea.
When the vessels were about a mile apart, the jets of fire and smoke from the side of the _Alabama_, followed by the reverberating boom of her cannon, showed that she had fired her first broadside.
A muffled, thunderous explosion followed, an immense column of water rose in the air and the tremendous tipping of the _Albemarle_ showed she had received a mortal hurt.
Meanwhile the two seamen stationed near shore by the captain saw what had taken place and ran back to him with the alarming news.
The _Kearsarge_, like many other vessels of the United States, had been hunting here and there for the ocean pest, but it seemed impossible to bring her to bay.
Price, postpaid, for any of the above nine books, Fifty Cents.
The wound was a frightful one, but, beyond dispute, it saved the life of Decatur, who never forgot the man that had done him this inestimable service.
Foote replied that it would be as safe to run the batteries at midday as on a clear night; for a vessel had to pass not only seven batteries, but be kept "head on" to a battery of eleven guns, at the upper part of Island No.
The Confederate commander and his sympathizing British friends offered all sorts of excuses for his defeat.
The _Essex_ was pounded at long range until 58 of her men were killed and 66 wounded, when, to save her officers and crew from annihilation, she surrendered.
Some time before Captain Winslow had arranged his sheet chains for a distance of fifty feet amidships and over the side of his vessel, extending six feet down.
[Illustration] Helen's Babies By John Habberton Interesting!
When night closed in, however, the pursuer had perceptibly gained.
The name of Vermont recalls the gallant "Green Mountain Boys," who proved their sturdy patriotism not only in the Revolution, but before those stormy days broke over the land.
Captains Carden and Decatur--Cruise of the _Macedonian_--Battle with the Frigate _United States_--Decatur's Chivalry.
The victor lay to and lowered a boat, under charge of a lieutenant, who, as he climbed aboard, gave his name and that of the American 44-gun frigate as the _United States_, Captain Stephen Decatur.
The Union fleet consisted of 21 wooden vessels and 6 ironclads.
Early in 1864 the lieutenant was made executive officer of the gunboat _Agawam_, and when attached to the North Atlantic squadron, took part in the attack on Fort Fisher, one of the strongest of forts, which, standing at the entrance of Cape Fear river, was so efficient a protection to Wilmington that the city became the chief port in the Confederacy for blockade runners.
The bombardment was continued for three weeks, without inflicting serious damage, and there was little prospect of capturing the place from the river, when General Pope arrived with a large land force; but to reach the fort it was necessary for him to get his troops across the river, and he had not a single transport to use for that purpose.
Decatur was the first to get under way, sailing on May 20 with a squadron consisting of ten vessels, mounting 210 guns.
Their all too brief wedded life was ideally happy, but she died December 28, 1872, a few days after the birth of a son, named George Goodwin, in honor of his grandfather.
While on duty at the Naval Asylum in Philadelphia he persuaded the men to give up their grog rations and sign a pledge of total abstinence, and when executive officer on the _Cumberland_ he did the same thing with its crew.
_Ask for our complete catalogue.
The men who fired the treacherous shots were seen by two American marines, who shot them dead.
Lieutenant Dewey was one of the most active of the young officers in the attack on Fort Fisher, and conducted himself with so much bravery and skill, executing one of the most difficult and dangerous movements in the heat of the conflict, that he was highly complimented by his superior officers.
THE BIRTH AND BOYHOOD OF GEORGE DEWEY.
Now, as to the cause of the war between England and our country: Great Britain was engaged in a tremendous conflict with France, at the head of which was the greatest military leader of the world, Napoleon Bonaparte.
Captain William Bainbridge was in command of the _Philadelphia_, and was detailed to help in blockading Tripoli.
These mishaps so crippled her that she became almost unmanageable.
By the enlistment of the mongrel population of the neighborhood, the American consul gathered a formidable force, with which the enemy were again defeated.
The crowd surged back and forth and became mixed in inextricable confusion.
The reply of the latter was so well directed and effective that three of the boats were sunk and their crews left struggling in the water.
But, returning the fire, the Americans burst open the gate of the stockade, fought hand to hand with the fierce Malays and drove them out of the open space into the citadel.
These cruisers wrought immense havoc among our shipping, and Commander Winslow was sent into European waters in quest of them.
It was of yellow silk, with the device of a rattlesnake, and bore the motto, "Don't tread on me." Jones attracted such favorable attention during this enterprise that on his return he was made commander of the twelve-ton brig _Providence_ and was employed for a time in carrying troops from Rhode Island to New York.
The _Countess of Scarborough_ made a gallant resistance for two hours, when she was so crippled that she was compelled to surrender to the Frenchman.
Then as the vessel see-sawed, the jibboom of the _Guerriere_ crossed the _Constitution's_ quarter deck.
The great risk in this attempt (for no one among the Americans doubted their ability to overcome the other crew) was that before the capture could be accomplished the other vessels would come up and Decatur be assailed by an overwhelming force, but he did not hesitate.
Captain Downes then informed them that the expedition would leave the ship at midnight.
In a twinkling the quarter deck was cleared and all the Tripolitans on the forecastle were rushed overboard.
But unfortunately the _Bonhomme Richard_ suffered from her own guns as well as from those of the enemy.
While at Madeira Captain Carden learned that the _Essex_ had sailed from the Delaware and was expected to cruise in the neighborhood of the Canary Islands.
The little cannon was brought into play from a neighboring elevation and poured canister and grape into the Malays.
[Illustration: IRONCLADS ON THE MISSISSIPPI.] The next engagement in which Lieutenant Dewey took part was the attempt by Farragut to pass the battery of nineteen guns, mounted on the hundred-foot high bluff of Port Hudson, on a bend of the Mississippi, below Vicksburg.
The four remaining boats were not frightened off, but, rowing with might and main, reached the side of the vessel and began clambering on board.
[Illustration: OLD-TIME BATTLESHIPS.] A deserter had slipped on board of the _Serapis_ in the confusion and acquainted the commander with the frightful plight of the American.
Thus "Commodore" Perry, who won the remarkable victory on Lake Erie, was promoted from that rank to "captain." Another interesting fact may be named.
The batteries on shore opened fire, but, in their excitement, they aimed wildly, and no harm was done.
There was only one person who saw the only possible thing to do.
It came about that the Dey of Tripoli got the idea into his head that we were not paying him as much as we did his neighbors.
But the latter was not fleeing, and, although dimly visible to each other, the two antagonists began cautiously approaching, both on the alert for any advantage that might present itself.
He was married three times, and by his first wife had three sons and one daughter.
He was given the command of the frigate _Chesapeake_, which was repairing in Boston harbor.
If not, by all means do so at once.
On the last day of October, 1803, Captain Bainbridge observed a Tripolitan vessel trying to make port.
When the _Kearsarge_ had reached a point some seven miles from land, she swung around and made directly for the _Alabama_, although such a course exposed her to the raking broadsides of the enemy.
Such a thing as surrender was not thought of by either.
Captain Jones called to him in God's name to desist, but he circled about the two ships and fired again and again into his ally, killing and wounding a number of men and officers.
The first Spanish cruiser to show itself was the _Infanta Maria Teresa_, followed by the _Vizcaya_, the _Almirante Oquendo_ and the _Cristobal Colon_, with the torpedo boats _Pluton_ and _Furor_ bringing up the rear.
While the damage on the _Constitution_ was less, it clogged her action, but she secured a position from which she delivered two raking broadsides.
This ship was an old Indiaman, in which 42 guns were placed, and the final number of her crew was 304.
Undaunted, the _Monongahela_ rammed her again, though she received ten times as much damage as she inflicted.
It would be interesting to know what ideas the Dey had of the Republic on the other side of the Atlantic.
When the _Tecumseh_ was diving downward Commander Craven and the pilot instinctively started for the opening through which only one man could pass at a time.
Had she been wise and treated the United States with justice, she would have saved herself the many humiliations received at our hands.
When the _Ranger_ was reached Captain Jones made the discovery that one of his men was missing.
The blade of the weapon, although quite plain and ordinary looking, of course was very valuable, but the hilt was so rough and crude that I expressed my surprise.
But the _Varuna_ had been mortally hurt and was sinking fast.
While approaching Cavit two mines exploded directly in front of the _Olympia_.
There were two American vessels that Captain Carden was specially anxious to meet.
The whoops quickly changed when the cabins within the stockade were set on fire by a rocket.
Fort Powell was subjected to a severe bombardment that afternoon and on the following night was abandoned and blown up.
The stillness was so profound that men heard the suppressed breathing of their comrades.
Recalling that occurrence, Commodore Dewey joined in spirit in repeating the words: "D---- the torpedoes!" It was still many miles to the entrance, and night closed in while the squadron was ploughing through the sea that broke in tumbling foam at the bows and spread far away in snowy wakes at the rear.
All was going well, but while still close to the abandoned works Cushing's little steamer ran aground, and, despite every effort, he could not work her free.
An hour had passed and the men were fighting furiously, when the full moon appeared above the horizon and lit up the fearful scene.
Improving every moment and under a continual fire from the shore, Porter managed to descend something more than half way down the river to Grand Ecore, where he found Banks and his demoralized army.
He refused to obey Jones's signal to fall to the rear of the _Bonhomme Richard_ and the _Pallas_ for a time was equally disobedient.
The battle was now between two ironclads.
The rippling of the water against the prows and cables was an annoyance, and on more than one forehead great drops of cold perspiration gathered.
Under his direction several thousand men were set to work, and, at the end of twelve days, they had constructed a series of wing dams, through which the vessels were safely floated into the deeper water below the falls.
At the breaking out of the Civil War he was in command of the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
About the time named Spain was the mistress of most of the South American countries.
The men on the _Alabama_ stripped to their shirts and drawers and fired rapidly, as if the only thing to do was to work the guns without taking pause to aim.
When the war was over she was compelled to pay a good round sum for her dishonest course, and was taught a lesson she is not likely soon to forget.
It did not take him long to discover that the institution, like that at West Point, is controlled by the most rigid discipline possible.
HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.
One of the Most Memorable Sea Fights Ever Known--The Wonderful Exploit of Captain Paul Jones.
The new scheme was to fix up the _Intrepid_ as a bomb ketch, send her into the harbor at night and there explode her.
He in turn drove his pike at Decatur's breast, but his blow was also parried, though its violence broke off the American's sword at the hilt.
In the former instance not a life was lost and in the latter only one man was killed on our side, while the loss of the enemy was severe.
An abundance of combustibles had been brought, and they were now distributed and fired so effectively that nothing could save the fine vessel.
The _Richmond_ was so badly injured that she was compelled to turn down stream, having suffered a loss of three killed and fifteen wounded, while the _Monongahela_ had six killed and twenty-one wounded before she was able to wrench herself loose from where she had grounded and drift out of range.
While Captain Carden and his officers were in doubt whether the ship was a French one she gave her colors to the breeze.
He did so, steaming to Mirs Bay, a Chinese port near at hand, where he completed his preparations for battle, and on the 27th of April steamed out of the harbor on his way to Manila.
The commodore of a squadron was the highest ranking officer and he might be lower than a captain.
The _Flying Fish_ proved so unseaworthy that, after passing through a violent storm, she was obliged to return to port and took no further part in the enterprise.
He once captured by boarding in broad daylight a Portuguese frigate within sight of Gibraltar.
Anchoring near the wreck, a boat was manned and placed in charge of Lieutenant Boggs, to whom the work of destruction was intrusted.
He became lieutenant in 1825, commander in 1841 and captain in 1851.
Stewart, like all the rest, was peering into the black mist, when he saw a star-like point of light, moving with an up and down motion, in a horizontal line, showing that it was a lantern carried by a man running along the deck of a ship.
He was a brave man and a patriot in every fibre of his being.
Indeed, no one dreamed that the vessel was the terrible American "pirate," which had thrown the whole country into terror.
Among the vessels scuttled and sunk was the steam frigate _Merrimac_, at that time the finest vessel in the service.
Dacres manoeuvred for a raking position, but Hull would not permit it, nor could he obtain one for himself.
For a time two flags were flung to the breeze in the United States, and the men who fought under each were among the bravest of the brave, for they were all _Americans_.
In view of what subsequently occurred, we can smile at the general uneasiness and fear which prevailed in this country at the opening of hostilities regarding the fleets of Spain.
A moderate estimate made 100 of the Malays killed and fully double the number wounded.
As may be supposed, this exhausted the patience of the American commander.
At the same moment he heard the vicious snapping of the primers of the huge guns, which showed they had missed fire.
The two manoeuvred for position, but the _Essex_ proved her superiority, and, after a volley of musketry, which killed one man, the _Nocton_, as she proved to be, hauled down her flag.
The respective captains were brave men and good officers.
No stricter rules can be devised than those that prevail at the two institutions.
The _Mississippi_ continued pounding her until she was completely wrecked.
Captain Foote closed his instructions to his faithful aide with the following impressive words: On this delicate and somewhat hazardous service to which I assign you I must enjoin upon you the importance of keeping your lights secreted in the hold or put out, keeping your officers and men from speaking at all, when passing the forts, above a whisper, and then only on duty, and of using every other precaution to prevent the rebels suspecting that you are dropping below their batteries.
The Confederate cruiser carried one 100-pounder Blakely gun, one 8-inch shell gun and six long 32-pounders, the eight guns having a total of 360 pounds shot weight, while the crew consisted of 149 men, of mixed nationalities, nearly all of them being Englishmen.
Along the shore, at the foot of the bluffs, powerful reflecting lamps, like those used on locomotives, had been placed to show the ships to the enemy as they passed, and for the same purpose large fires, already stacked on the opposite point, were lit.
The smoke around the American becoming so dense as to cloud the vision, Stewart slipped forward and quickly delivered a double-shotted broadside.
These increased until his brain was all askew, and he died in an insane asylum in 1874.
Commodore Dewey coolly scanned the hostile vessels, and grasping the whole situation, as may be said, at a glance, led in the attack on the enemy.
He hastened to explain to the officer that he had no intention of attacking the town, but he should do so if any one tried to prevent his destruction of the stranded vessel.
Like the Spaniards themselves, they were ferocious, and generally murdered the crews of the captured vessels and then divided the plunder among themselves.
Captain Jones forged ahead, crossing his enemy's bow, while the latter came up on his port quarter.
Uncertain whether this was an accident, and suspecting a ruse by which the enemy expected to reach shore, now only two miles off, Winslow stopped firing, but held himself ready to open again.
It was understood that Walke was to make the attempt on the first rainy or foggy night.
I purpose telling you in the following pages about the exploits of the gallant men who composed the American Navy, beginning with the Revolution and ending with the story of their wonderful deeds in our late war with Spain.
The chains were secured by marline to eyebolts protected with one-inch boards.
Seeing that it would be sure death to go to the vessel, the boat was rowed to a small town about twenty miles distant, where the occupants found three American merchant vessels.
The disparity was so great that our Government, after looking at the situation and discussing the matter, decided that it would be folly to fight England on the ocean, and it was decided not to do so.
Grant and Foote now formed a plan for the capture of Nashville, but on the eve of starting were stopped by a telegraphic order from General Halleck not to allow the gunboats to go further up the river than Clarksville.
England was very cruel to many of her American prisoners, and Captain Jones fixed upon a bold and novel plan for compelling her to show more mercy toward those unfortunate enough to fall into her power.
Doubling the Cape of Good Hope, they met with no incident of note until the latter part of April, when they sighted a large sail, which they believed to be a heavily laden East India merchantman.
They were pursued, and within ten minutes the frigate was captured, without a shot having been fired or an outcry made.
It passed within a hundred yards of Fort Morgan, which could have easily blown it out of the water.
And here was the grandson of the hero of that fight, already thirty years of age, with the hair on his crown growing scant.
While engaged upon one of his successful cruises, Captain Reid put into the harbor of Fayal, one of the Azores, to provision his ship.
At this writing he is a popular preacher, who will always believe it was a most providential thing for our country that turned him aside from blocking the entrance of George Dewey to the Naval Academy at Annapolis.
Before it could be repeated the other ship attempted to gain a raking position across the stern of the _Constitution_.
He was accompanied by eight men and the following officers: Acting Ensign William L.
Captain Bainbridge and some of his brother officers, who were prisoners in Tripoli, were allowed to view them.
Settling down upon the water in a still, damp atmosphere, it soon hid everything from the eyes of the pilots.
[Illustration: BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.] This squadron sailed from L'Orient on June 19, 1779.
So it was that, year after year, we sent a good round gift to those barbarians.
HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.= =The Famous Alger Books By Horatio Alger, Jr.
The plotters were overawed and the rebellion nipped in the bud.
At no time during the passage of the forts and the desperate fighting with the Confederate flotilla above did he display the first evidence of nervousness or lack of self-possession.
The gun was loaded to the muzzle and trained upon the enemy, so as to go off when heated, the steamer set on fire in several places, and, dropping into the smaller boat, the men pulled with might and main for the schooner.
The two vessels started on a cruise in company and some days later the _Alfred_ fell in with three British vessels, and, after a brisk action, captured them all.
Having wrought this irreparable damage, the _Alliance_ drew off and ceased her murderous work.
When Porter had waited a short time at the appointed place of meeting for Banks's army a messenger reached him with news of that General's defeat and his hurried retreat.
The wooden gunboats _Miami_ and _Southfield_ offered just the sort of targets the monster fancied.
Ceasing firing for a few minutes, the frigate moved far enough forward to pass from under the impenetrable blanket of vapor and then renewed the battle with more terrific effect than before.
The terrible occurrence was witnessed by friends and foes.
Finding the _Florida_ in Brest, he blockaded the port.
Dewey in the War for the Union.
Grant assured him he would be on time to put his army in motion.
These lexicons are adaptable for use in schools, academies and colleges, and for all persons desirous of obtaining a correct knowledge of these languages.
The line became broken and entangled, observing which, Perry took instant advantage of it.
As soon as Captain Jones learned of the fearful plight of the Frolic he sent his surgeon on board, and everything possible was done to assist the sorely smitten enemy.
A book with a famous reputation.
Jones's bold and skilful seamanship drew attention to him and he was now given command of the 24-gun ship _Alfred_, while Captain Hacker took charge of the _Providence_.
In order to understand my use of the words "captain" and "commodore," it is necessary to explain that at the time to which I now refer the latter rank was different from what it is to-day.
This propensity was carried to such an extent that the youth earned the name of being a "bad boy," and there is no use of pretending he did not deserve the reputation.
kill the men!' Both were men of the kindliest feelings and most tender affections; both acknowledged the justice of the cause for which the Americans were contending, yet with steady determination they went out at the head of their ships' companies to take each other's life.
Dewey, who knew how to be stern as well as kind, was compelled more than once to interpose his authority in a way that no lad is likely to forget.
The struggle was a furious one, but in the end the British were so decisively defeated that only two of the boats returned to the ships.
The night selected--April 4--was rainy and of inky blackness, relieved by vivid flashes of lightning.
He came North and was appointed to the command of the blockading squadron off Wilmington.
Captain Landais, however, sullenly kept out of the battle, and, as we shall presently learn, did even worse than that.
Then he crawled into a swamp, where he remained hidden until a friendly negro appeared, who extended every possible kindness to him.
The battle continued for more than two hours with the utmost desperation, during which the scenes on the _Lawrence_ were too frightful to be described.
Master-Commandant Perry's victory caused his promotion to the rank of captain, and Congress awarded him a gold medal, besides suitably rewarding his officers and men.
Enough has been related concerning Stephen Decatur to show that he was the most prominent of our naval leaders in our last war with Great Britain.
Of the four hundred British prizes captured in the second year of the war, four-fifths were taken by privateers.
Leaving a part of his force to protect the boats, he started inland, taking a 12-pounder howitzer with him.
When, therefore, civil war came and it became fashionable for people to express secession sentiments, it was taken for granted that Farragut would cast his fortunes with the South; but upon being approached he indignantly replied: "I would see every man of you damned before I would raise my hand against that flag!" Being told that it would be unsafe for him to remain in the South, he added that he wanted only two hours to find another place of residence.
Assistant Secretary of War Theodore Roosevelt, after a careful study of the record of the different naval commanders, was convinced that George Dewey deserved one of the most important commands at the disposal of the Government.
The most frightful confusion that can be imagined followed.
His plan was to sail in among the craft and burn them all.
It seemed scarcely possible for him to live, and he lay in the hospital for months.
Among those picked up was Captain Semmes, who had flung his sword into the sea and leaped overboard as his ship was going down.
This startling experience convinced the Englishman that he had met his master and he crowded on all sail in the desperate effort to escape.
As it floated in the breeze from his vessel it was received with enthusiastic cheers.
Some of these cruisers secretly engaged in piracy; many that flew the black flag, in the presence of those who could not defend themselves, claimed to be authorized privateers at other times and carried forged commissions.
He held the attention of the people from the opening to the close, and among the listeners were more than one who felt that the unexplained absence of the regular pastor had resulted in a gain, though a brief one, for them.
They sent out regular cruisers that had the same right to prey upon Spanish commerce that our privateers had to attack English ships when we were at war with their country.
He possessed all those qualities in a high degree, and, in the performance of his duty, reached the mouth of the Orinoco in July, 1815, in command of three powerful ships.
While working its way back the cutter ran upon a reef and was attacked by the natives.
She proved to be the British sloop of war _Levant_, of 21 guns.
The companions of Lieutenant Hobson in this remarkable achievement were Osborn Deignan, George F.
In charge of the _Montauk_, of the South Atlantic blockading squadron, he destroyed, while under a heavy fire, the Confederate steamer _Nashville_ and participated in the unsuccessful attack upon Charleston.
The trouble, however, was that other Confederates like General Dick Taylor did all they could to defeat the purpose of General Banks and they succeeded to perfection.
During the course of the conversation I asked Captain Winslow whether he was a relative of the late Commodore John Ancrum Winslow, commander of the _Kearsarge_ in her famous fight with the _Alabama_.
There was little manoeuvring, the contest being what is known as a square yardarm and yardarm fight.
This was proven by his conduct when in charge of the American fleet in the Bering Sea, placed there to prevent the illegal killing of seals.
As soon as he was able to take an active command he asked the privilege of doing so.
Captain Stewart came back from a cruise in the West Indies in the spring of 1814, and found the _Constitution_, "Old Ironsides," closely blockaded by a powerful British squadron.
There was one feature of that war which it is not pleasant for Americans to recall.
In December the _Essex_ crossed the equator, and soon after overhauled a British brig of war, which strained every effort to escape.
Admiral Farragut was making his preparations to attack New Orleans, and the _Varuna_ was added to his fleet.
Formerly published at a price many times higher than now asked, this book is offered, postpaid, in cloth at 30 cents, and in paper, 15 cents.
No sooner were the Spanish ships clear of the harbor than they turned westward and strained every nerve to escape, firing at their pursuers, who were equally determined to overtake or destroy them.
He came from a seafaring family, and, entering the navy at an early age, did gallant service in the war with France and Tripoli.
He moved away at once and with his wife and only son took up his home on the Hudson near Tarrytown.
Then the firing became so close and rapid that half the American officers were killed or wounded.
The intention of the Americans was to board, and Lieutenant James Biddle held himself and men ready to take instant advantage of the moment the roll of the sea brought them near enough to do so.
Lieutenant Decatur whispered to the pilot to say they had just arrived from Malta, and, having lost their anchor, wished to make fast to the _Philadelphia's_ cables until another could be got from shore.
The work involved great labor and difficulty, and Winslow's aid was invaluable, although far from congenial.
They exchanged visits, had dinners together and talked in the most friendly terms over the relations of their respective countries.
The second night was similar to the one described, and Lieutenant Thompson, in charge of the _Pittsburg_, started down the river at two o'clock in the morning.
The Lieutenant produced it, whereupon they declared it a forgery and arrested him on the charge of being a pirate.
Prudence, and the fact of the best water being on the starboard hand, led the ships to hug the east shore of the river, passing so close under the Confederate guns that the speech of the gunners and troops could be distinguished.
He led a division of sailors in the second and what proved to be the successful attack upon Fort Fisher, in January, 1865.
Many others fled from the city, but the majority stayed, grimly determined to be in at the death and accept whatever fate was in store for them.
"While preparations were being made to destroy the ship, the sick and wounded were lowered into boats and conveyed ashore, while the men at the starboard battery continued to fight in splendid style, firing at every flash of the enemy's guns.
The noise brought up a number of Turks from below, but the moment they saw what was going on they either leaped into the sea or hid themselves in the hold.
There was no getting out of the way of the fire-raft, which, being jammed against the flagship, sent the flames through the portholes and up the oiled masts.
The two together carried 55 guns and 313 men, while the _Constitution_ had 51 guns and a crew of 456 men.
Though the contrivance is an awkward one, we cannot help thinking the excuse of the Lieutenant was weak, but the result was a failure on his part to carry out the important work assigned to him.
Suddenly from the gloom came the voice of the captain of the _Serapis_: "What ship is that?" Jones wished to get nearer before opening fire and replied: "I do not understand you; speak louder." "What ship is that?" repeated the other in a louder voice through his trumpet.
When the two ships were within a third of a mile of each other the fire became terrible; but from the first that of the _Kearsarge_ was more accurate and did vast damage.
The war ending soon after, his inestimable services came to a close.
The school was notorious for the roughness of a number of its pupils, who had ousted more than one instructor and welcomed the chance to tackle a new one.
He was a cadet on the steam frigate _Wabash_, which cruised in the Mediterranean squadron until 1859, when he returned to Annapolis and, upon examination, took rank as the leader of his class, proof that he had spent his time wisely while on what may be called his trial cruise.
In addition, the city of Algiers was so strongly fortified that Lord Nelson declared that twenty-five ships of the line would not be more than enough to capture it.
The men were forced to retreat to their boats, under a hot fire, many of the savages using muskets with no little skill.
There was one Confederate scourge that had been roaming the seas for months which Captain Winslow was anxious, above all others, to meet; that was the _Alabama_, commanded by his former room-mate, Captain Raphael Semmes.
No man in our navy, at his age, has ever won so brilliant a reputation, and it will be his own fault if it is not increased until he has no superior." And yet Commander Cushing's reputation was not increased nor was it through any fault of his own.
They succeeded, however, in warping one of the schooners beyond range.
It was a pleasant bit of information, but it made me realize how the years are passing.
Even the captain of the _Albemarle_ declared that "a more gallant thing was not done during the war." While conceding to Lieutenant Hobson the full credit for his daring achievement in sinking the _Merrimac_ in the channel of Santiago harbor, on June 3, 1898, it was by no means the equal of that of Lieutenant Cushing, thirty-four years before.
He maintained his tremendous fire for a time, when he observed the other ship luffing across his course to secure a raking position, whereupon, with the same unsurpassable seamanship that he had shown from the first, he crossed the wake of the foremost ship and obtained a raking position himself.
The fire of the American was so amazingly accurate and effective that in a short time the enemy hoisted a light and fired a gun in token of surrender.
Commodore Preble sailed into the harbor and demanded an explanation of the emperor.
Mingled with the terrific booming was the spiteful rattle of musketry from the tops and yells and cries of the wounded.
The lightning flashes helped the _Carondelet_ in more than one way.
Farragut had carefully studied the situation, and, confident that the passage could be made, determined it should be done, no matter at what cost.
Paul Jones waited until midnight.
The _Bonhomme Richard_ was old and in bad condition, but Jones told Benjamin Franklin in a letter that he meant to do something with her that would induce his Government to provide him with a better ship.
There he landed, built a fort and made the repairs of which his vessel stood in sore need.
As it was, her commander and 100 of the crew were slain by the irresistible fire of the tremendous ironclad.
But on this night, of all others, the sentinels were dozing, for had they been vigilant they must have seen the little craft whose crew saw theirs and were on the _qui vive_ to board on the instant of discovery.
As Decatur drew near the Portugal coast he made guarded inquiries as to the whereabouts of the Algerian squadron.
The Americans were now at close quarters and able to do their best work, and so dreadful was it that fifteen minutes later a white handkerchief was waved at the end of a boarding-pike on one of the boats as a signal of surrender.
Not only that, but the men lay down on the quarter deck to help trim the ship.
Nothing could extricate the boat and its crew from their peril and not a man could raise a finger to help himself.
With scarcely a moment's hesitation, he resolved upon the last plan, which looked as suicidal as remaining on the steamer.
He was informed that the Earl was absent.
Finally his request to be transferred to sea service was granted, and in the early part of 1863 he was placed in command of the _Kearsarge_.
Broke was the descendant of an ancient family which had lived in Broke Hall, England, over three hundred and fifty years and for four hundred years at Leighton.
They came into port, the captain of the _Phoebe_ exchanging, compliments with Porter, they being old acquaintances; but, all the same, each was distrustful of the other, and both maintained what may be termed a position of armed neutrality.
Meanwhile the riflemen in the rigging were working with destructive energy.
The Americans broke into cheers.
That men are without thought when they stand among the dying and dead is too absurd an idea to be entertained.
The _Congress_ was aground and so completely at the mercy of the _Merrimac_, which raked her fore and aft, that every man would have been killed had not the sign of surrender been displayed.
It was a source of regret throughout the country that on the night of February 2, 1894, the _Kearsarge_ was wrecked off Roncador Reef, while on a voyage from Port-au-Prince, Hayti, to Bluefields, Nicaragua.
He was Jacob Jones, who lived until 1850.
Grape shot and canister were pouring through our portholes like leaden hail.
It was about ten o'clock that Winslow, with his glass pointed toward shore, saw the head of the _Alabama_ coming round the point of the mole, some three miles distant.
Excursion trains were run from Paris and other points to Cherbourg, and among the vast multitude who gathered on shore on that warm, hazy Sunday morning--June 19--to witness the coming battle, it may be doubted whether there were a score who wished to see the _Kearsarge_ win.
To make such training perfect, he occasionally started a fire in the hatches.
In the latter part of September, 1812, she left Portsmouth, England.
Gunboats _El Cano_ and _General Lezo_, built in 1885, iron, 528 tons, 10 to nearly 12 knots, and each mounting three 3.5-inch rifles.
General Jackson won his famous triumph at New Orleans--still celebrated in all parts of the country--January 8, 1815; the _President_ was captured by a British fleet, January 15; Captain Stewart captured the _Cyane_ and _Levant_, February 20; the _Hornet_ took the _Penguin_, March 23, and the _Peacock_ captured the _Nautilus_, in a distant part of the world, June 30.
One of the Admiral's most pleasing traits was his appreciation of the services of his assistants.
Our Complete Catalogue can be had for the asking.
This wonderful exploit was celebrated in song, one stanza of which ended thus: "From set of sun till rise of morn, through the long September night, Ninety men against two thousand, and the ninety won the fight; In the harbor of Fayal the Azore." While the victory of itself was one of the most remarkable of which there is any record, it resembled that of Perry on Lake Erie in its far-reaching consequences.
Permission was given, and, going on board, Worden delivered his message like a boy reciting his piece at school.
In a public dispatch the Secretary of the Navy said, addressing Admiral Porter: "To yourself, your officers and the brave and gallant sailors who have been so fertile in resources, so persistent and so daring under all circumstances, I tender, in the name of the President, the thanks and congratulations of the whole country on the fall of Vicksburg." One of the most disastrous expeditions of the Civil War was that which was undertaken by General N.P.
As a consequence they received the main fire of the enemy, which soon became concentrated on the _Lawrence_, that was gallantly fighting against overwhelming odds.
The end of the month made the total three hundred, but he determined to get to sea on the first opportunity.
He devotedly loved his adopted country, and, when the war broke out between the colonies and Great Britain, and the long, hard struggle for independence began, he was among the very first to offer his services on the side of liberty.
She was just off the docks and her crew, 297 in number, were such as the best officer would have been proud to command.
Stewart told me that Decatur was a good student, but there was hardly a boy in the school, anywhere near his own age, with whom he did not have a fight.
With a shout, Cushing was after them, followed by his men, and mules and ammunition were recovered in a twinkling.
In the latter Porter and General Terry succeeded in capturing the last important sea fortress belonging to the Confederates.
The sea was so heavy that the guns of the _Wasp_ frequently dipped under water.
He won the commendation of the Navy Department for his tactful success in settling threatened trouble over the stoning of a number of American sailors from the _Baltimore_ by a party of Chilians at Valparaiso.
It will be admitted that Lieutenant Dewey had received his "baptism of fire." It is the testimony of every one who saw him during the turmoil of battle that he conducted himself with the coolness and courage of a veteran.
None could surpass him in running, leaping, swimming and in boyish sports.
He was a deserter and had been seen by his former comrades running from house to house and giving the alarm.
The leader in the conspiracy to seize the ship fixed upon a night to make the attempt, and his friends were on the alert to join him the moment he gave the signal.
The latter was hit on the chin and badly, though not dangerously, wounded, while the man at the wheel was not struck.
What a feat it would be and how vast the good it would accomplish!
The campaign arranged was to attack it with a land force under the command of Generals Canby and Granger and a naval force under Farragut.
He read his Bible and spent many hours in prayer, and finally yielded completely to God.
Following down the family line, we come to the birth of Julius Yemans Dewey, August 22, 1801, at Berlin, Vermont.
Captain Pearson could not believe the condition of the _Bonhomme Richard_ as bad as was represented by the deserter.
Firing ceased, and in the smoke and confusion two of the enemy's boats darted away in an attempt to escape; but they were followed and brought back.
It not only gave the pilot the necessary knowledge to avoid running aground, but confused the Confederate gunners, who sent most of their shots over the boat, which was not struck once during its remarkable run down the Mississippi.
The men scrambled upon the platform, in the face of the swarthy wild cats, and despatched them in a whirlwind fashion.
In the ardor of the assault the little cannon was too heavily loaded and dismounted.
When Decatur proved by the testimony of one of the native prisoners that their admiral had been killed and his ship and a second one captured, the officer was astounded, and so alarmed that he asked the American commander on what terms he would make peace.
The crews were so close that they taunted each other through the portholes and even hurled missiles across the brief intervening space.
Thus the Bashaw secured a most valuable prize.
Captain Carden conceded the bravery and skill of the American officers and seamen, but insisted that they would be at a disadvantage, because they had not met with the experience of the Englishmen, who had been engaged in so many wars with European nations.
His character was so well known and appreciated that he was appointed a first lieutenant.
Knowing the daring nature of Decatur, he was given strict orders not to attempt to cut out the _Philadelphia_, but to destroy her.
Captain Warrington signalled the startling fact to Biddle, and the two turned to escape.
They encouraged their naval officers to capture American vessels, and when we sent commissioners to France to protest they were coolly told that outrages upon our commerce would not be stopped until we paid the leaders several hundred thousand dollars in the way of bribes.
Across the water came the crashing roar of the prodigious explosion, followed a few moments later by the sounds of wreckage and bodies as they dropped into the sea.
[Illustration: OUR FLEET IN THE BALTIC.] Captain Porter was discreet but impatient with injustice.
At the Annapolis Academy the lines between the cadets from the North and the South were sharply drawn.
Before giving an account of this memorable scientific expedition, let me add a little more information concerning this distinguished naval officer, since this is the only chapter which contains any reference to him.
On the lower gun deck was an improvised battery of six 18-pounders, two of which burst, killing most of the men at work there and tearing away the deck above them.
He literally destroyed English commerce in the Pacific, for none of the vessels not captured dared leave port, and the American merchant ships were protected.
Knowing that she was doomed, the _Brooklyn_ and _Oregon_ gave her a few parting shots and kept up their furious pursuit of the _Almirante Oquendo_ and the _Cristobal Colon_.
If ever man lived who knew not the meaning of fear, he was William Barker Cushing, born in Wisconsin in 1842.
This was probably done by French agents in Sicily.
For six weeks the two frigates blockaded Porter.
Among the most important steps was the second--that of opening the Mississippi, which being accomplished, the Southwest, from which the Confederacy drew its immense supplies of cattle, would be cut off and a serious blow struck against the armed rebellion.
He was wild and reckless, and resigned in March, 1861, when even his closest friends saw little hope of his success in life.
He was suffering from a painful wound in the hand, and when helped on board of the _Deerhound_ was in an exhausted condition.
This duty completed, he was appointed to the command of the expedition organized for the capture of New Orleans.
We propose to continue its popularity by making a low-priced cloth edition.
The disaster gave a serious aspect to the war, for it not only added material strength to the enemy, but increased their courage and insured a more determined resistance on their part.
Our Government was compelled to disavow his action and restore the commissioners to English custody.
Watson took part in all of them and none acquitted himself better.
He now proceeded to Tunis and notified the Dey that he would give him twelve hours in which to pay $46,000 for allowing the seizure of American prizes in his port during the late war.
Fire was opened on both sides, but neither was effective, the position of the frigate preventing an effective aim.
There was a lively brush, in which it cannot be said that either party was the victor.
One of the cleverest exploits of Jones was performed in the autumn of 1776.
The decks of the _Bonhomme Richard_ were slippery with blood, which increased until the men, as they ran to and fro, splashed in it, like children playing in a mud puddle, and it was the same on the _Serapis_.
Meanwhile the _Miami_ was pounding the iron hide of the monster, which shed the missiles as the _Merrimac_ shed the broadsides from the _Cumberland_ and _Congress_.
The expedition, when in a starving condition and with only seven men alive, was rescued at Cape Sabine, Grinnell Land, in 1884 by Captain Schley.
But by this time day was breaking and the character of his vessel was discovered.
The Englishman was dumfounded by the daring manoeuvre, which brought the American within pistol shot, for he did not fire a gun until Jones was beyond reach of his grape.
Both were ironclads and Buchanan was as anxious to fight Craven as the latter was to fight him.
It took but a short time to complete the work, when she returned to her former position beside the wallowing _Guerriere_.
Still more were added, and the cruise of the _Essex_ and her companions in that part of the world became very much like a picnic.
There was a good deal of friction at that time between this country and England and had Captain Evans been the reckless "scrapper" that many supposed he could not have failed to involve us in trouble with that country.
Seeing there was no escape for the enemy, and wishing to save the unnecessary shedding of blood, Decatur took a position off the frigate's bow, whereupon she made a vigorous effort to escape.
It will be seen that the task was of the most dangerous nature conceivable, and yet when Captain Preble called for volunteers it seemed as if every one was eager to go.
Let the vessel enter the harbor at night with her men secreted below deck; steer her directly on board the frigate, and then let the men and officers board, sword in hand, and there is no doubt of their success.
Guns, one 6-inch, rapid-fire, ten 5-inch; secondary battery, eight 6-pounders, four 1-pounders, and two machine guns.
Peck's Uncle Ike and the Red-Headed Arabian Nights.
By and by the alcalde and captain of the port appeared and made such profuse and humble apologies that the officer could not refuse to accept them, and returned to his ship.
He had lost a great many men, all his guns were silenced, and, being utterly unable to make any further defence, he hauled down his flag with his own hands.
He was appointed commander of the West India forces and arrived off Porto Rico in March, 1823.
Banks, in the spring of 1864.
[Illustration: MEDAL PRESENTED BY CONGRESS TO CAPTAIN JOHN PAUL JONES.] This battle has never been surpassed in heroism.
The _Varuna_ replied, killing and wounding men on the _Governor Moore_ at every shot.
Then he asked for a delay of three hours.
The English yacht _Deerhound_ had hurried down from Caen, upon being telegraphed of the impending fight, and the owner, with his family on board, followed the _Alabama_ at the risk of receiving a stray shot that would wind up the career of the pleasure craft and all on board.
Wherever there arose a demand for its work, its patriotism, skill and bravery were instant to respond.
The engines were backed with all the steam that could be put upon them, and the backing was continued for thirty minutes, but without avail.
On the authority of Maclay, the total number of officers of all grades in the navy on August 1, 1861, was 1,457, in addition to whom an immense volunteer force was called for and 7,500 volunteer officers were enrolled before the close of the war.
It was a desperate fight and none displayed more heroism than the young officer who had destroyed the _Albemarle_.
He complimented Bailey in glowing terms in his official report, secured his promotion to brigadier-general and presented him with a sword which cost nearly a thousand dollars.
Well aware that the Unionists would neglect no means of blowing up the _Albemarle_, the Confederates used every possible precaution.
Moreover, she was at a hopeless disadvantage with her short guns, and soon became a wreck, with a large number of her men killed or wounded.
In his official report Decatur said: "Two fresh ships of the enemy, the 38-gun frigates _Pomone_ and _Tenedos_, had come up.
During the lull Captain Carden called his surviving officers around him for council.
If his fire, vigor and patriotism burned so brightly in 1861, little need be said in way of explanation of its nature when he was less than forty years of age.
England needed every soldier and sailor she could get.
Lesser Wars--Resentment of the Barbary States--The War with Algiers--Captain Decatur's Vigorous Course--His Astonishing Success as a Diplomat.
He would have preferred active service, and finally his health broke down under the exposure and fatigue to which he was subjected, and he was compelled to return home to recruit.
"He was my grandfather," replied my friend, with a glow of pride.
The Bomb Ketch--A Terrible Missile--Frightful Catastrophe--Diplomacy in Place of War--Peace.
On the night of the 23d his vessels were stripped of every rope and spar that could be spared, the masts and rigging of the gunboats and mortar vessels being trimmed with the limbs of trees, to conceal their identity from the Confederate watchers.
In March, 1865, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-commander and assigned to duty on the _Kearsarge_, the vessel that acquired undying glory for sinking the _Alabama_, off Cherbourg, France, during the previous July.
She was a very swift but frail craft, a fact which led Farragut to grant Boggs' request to be allowed to run ahead of the position that had been assigned him.
Like a stag beset by a pack of hounds, she was brought to her knees.
Had his enemies succeeded, little mercy would have been shown the dauntless hero.
Suddenly a dazzling gleam showed the pilot he was speeding straight for a shoal under the guns of the Confederate battery.
From the very start our naval vessels and privateers won the most brilliant of victories.
Captain Porter wished to keep secret his presence in that part of the world until after he had secured a number of prizes, but the condition of his vessel compelled him to put into Valparaiso, where he learned that Chili had begun her war of independence against Spain.
The battle occurred in the early hours of evening.
What earthly chance was there under such conditions of any possible harm coming to her?
While the civilized world was interested, as it has been for hundreds of years, in trying to reach the Pole, and the nations were constantly sending expeditions to search for it, to be followed by others to hunt for the expeditions and then by others to look up those that were hunting for the others and so on, all these efforts were confined to the North Pole.
One of the ships barely missed being crushed by hundreds of tons of ice which fell from the top of an overhanging iceberg.
It was found very hard to man these vessels and any other captain than Jones would have given up the task as an impossible one.
Seeing that something must be done to check these intolerable outrages, our Government gave the task, in 1819, to Oliver Hazard Perry, the hero of Lake Erie.
Gunboats _Mariveles_ and _Mindoro_, built in 1886 and 1885, iron, 142 tons, 10 knots, each mounting one 2.7-inch rifle and four machine guns.
Still he could not shake off the bulldog at his heels, and at daylight he was near enough to begin barking with the bow guns.
[Illustration: SHELLING FORTS PHILIP AND JACKSON.] The passage of the forts by the Union vessels forms one of the most thrilling pictures in the history of the Civil War.
When war had fully begun the Union forces in charge of the Norfolk Navy Yard saw they were not strong enough to prevent its capture by the Confederates, who were arming for that purpose.
But when a surgeon prepared to amputate one of his legs Evans, who had managed to procure a revolver, warned him that upon his first attempt to do so he would shoot him.
The decks of no ships have ever been trodden by braver men than our American sailors.
For a moment all was profound darkness, and then an immense fan-like expanse of flame shot far up into the sky, as if from the crater of a volcano, and was crossed by the curving streaks of fire made by shells in their eccentric flight.
Finally the smoke became so dense that the Americans were unable to see through it.
Commander Barclay displayed conspicuous bravery throughout the battle and was twice wounded, one of his injuries depriving him of the use of his single remaining arm.
A few months later two of his daughters died.
Indeed, matters had got to that point that he enjoyed the fun and was loath to let up, as he felt obliged to do, when the howling rebels slunk to their seats, thoroughly cowed and conquered.
She was so mangled that she began to settle, most of her guns had been disabled, a fire that could not be checked was already close to her magazine and several hundred prisoners were stealing here and there, waiting for a chance to strike from behind.
HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.
"Five of the rebels like satellites round her, Burned in her orbit of splendor and fear, One like the Pleiad of mystical story Shot terror-stricken beyond her dread sphere." When Boggs' native city heard of his gallant conduct it voted him a sword, and the State of New Jersey did the same.
When the British admiral discovered the American privateer within the harbor, he placed his own vessels so as to prevent its escape.
The _Endymion_ was so far in advance of the other pursuers that there was a possibility of turning about and capturing her.
Evans, known everywhere as "Fighting Bob," was born in Virginia in 1846.
It was amid those times of excitement, doubt and trouble that Commodore Charles Stewart left his modest home near Bordentown, N.J., and went by train to Washington.
The captain was listening intently, when through the rain and darkness the welcome signals reached his ears, and he thanked God that all had come out so well.
Like Havelock, he did an amount of good among those placed under his charge, the full extent of which can never be known in this world.
It will be noted that the future Admiral entered the Naval Academy at a stirring period in the history of our country, over which the coming Civil War already cast its awful shadow, and, as the months and years passed, the shadow darkened and grew more portentous until the red lightning rent the clouds apart and they rained blood and fire and woe and death.
By that time Paul Jones had proven himself to be the finest officer in the American Navy.
The most effective of these was the "Long Tom," which was generally mounted on a pivot forward, and used in firing upon a fleeing vessel.
That he was brave was proven not only by his sending a challenge to Lawrence, inviting him to come out and fight him, but by his conduct during the battle.
The United States bided its time.
Many of the officers declared that if they could lay hands on the audacious freebooter, as they called him, they would hang him at the yard arm.
Then again came a minute or so of impressive stillness, while the crews of both looked around to learn the results of the awful tempest of round shot, grape and canister of which they had been the targets.
He was on the Pacific coast when the Civil War broke out, serving as inspector of lighthouses.
The wooden vessels sailed in pairs, the larger on the starboard, so that if either was disabled the other could carry it along.
Send for our complete catalogue of books.
But the latter was in flames and the flag at her stern was pulled down.
So Captain Reid scuttled his ship, lowered his boats and rowed ashore.
A few hours afterward, when Captain Broke fell on the _Chesapeake's_ decks fainting and covered with his own blood, his lieutenants, on loosening his clothes, found a small blue silk case suspended around his neck.
When only nine years old he was appointed midshipman under Captain David Porter, the heroic commander of the _Essex_.
It was decided early in the war to send a squadron consisting of the _President_, Captain Stephen Decatur, and the sloops of war _Peacock_, Captain Warrington, and _Hornet_, Lieutenant Biddle, and the storeship _Tom Bowline_ on a cruise in the Indian Ocean.
In order to complete our history of the gallant Captain James Biddle it is necessary to carry the record in advance of some of the incidents that follow.
He afterward became minister to Turkey and died March 28, 1843.
It may as well be stated here that the court martial which investigated the particulars of the loss of the _Philadelphia_ acquitted Captain Bainbridge of all blame and declared that he had done everything possible under the circumstances.
The national authorities were thrown into consternation.
A good many opposed, because it was known that the attempt would bring on a conflict, and, if war was to come, each was anxious that the other side should strike the first blow.
"The _Mississippi_ was soon ablaze fore and aft, and as she was now relieved of a great deal of weight--by the removal of her crew and the destruction of her upper works--she floated off the bank and drifted down the river, much to the danger of the Union vessels below.
The boy replied by advising the teacher to go to the hottest region named in works on theology, and, descending the tree, led several young scamps in an attack upon the instructor.
There was no help for Captain Bainbridge.
He was superintendent of the naval academy until 1869, and died in Washington, February 13, 1891, one day before the death of General Sherman.
He was seized with the terrible disease and died on the 24th of August.
Although the shot did not strike the _Hornet_, Captain Biddle dropped his remaining anchors into the sea, including six guns, launch, cables, and everything not absolutely necessary.
Porter saw that it would not do for him to delay an hour.
| | || | | _J._ || Any of these books will be | | || supplied, postpaid, in cloth | | || binding, at 30c.
They were so large and well equipped that more than once they attacked and defeated British warships.
England had its hands full during the early years of the nineteenth century in combating Napoleon Bonaparte and other nations with which she became embroiled.
David Porter was born in 1780 and died in 1842.
"You have already done so much for your country that it seems only fair that we should give the younger men a chance." "Younger men!
But the American guns were served with perfect precision and the _Endymion_ was so broken and shattered by the fire that after two and a half hours she was incapable of further resistance.
A boat's crew deserted and spread the news of the arrival of the squadron off the English coast.
No precaution that could be thought of was neglected.
The crew refused to leave the blazing ship, and cursing and praying they went down with her.
Both sides fought with a bravery that has given the conflict a place by itself in naval annals, and it will always stand as a proof of the dauntless courage of the Anglo-Saxon beyond the reach of those of the Latin race.
Mailed upon request._ HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.
Captain Endicott, his second mate and four seamen were on shore at the trading station, a little way up the river, superintending the weighing of the pepper.
Occasional American Defeats as Well as Victories--Captain Decatur's Misfortune--The _Chesapeake_ and _Shannon_.
Peerless as was his conduct during offensive operations, it was surpassed in many respects by his course throughout the exasperating period named.
Still cool and self-possessed amid the horrible perils, Cushing stood erect, lowered the torpedo spar, shoved it under the overhang, waited a moment for it to rise until he felt it touch the bottom of the ram, when he gave a quick, strong pull on the trigger line.
They reached the foot of the ladder at the same moment.
This note, though couched in seemingly courteous language, contained the most aggravating sort of sting, in the hope expressed that the _Kearsarge_ would not leave until the _Alabama_ was ready to go out, and the intimation--undoubtedly false--that the sole business of the Union vessel was to take charge of the prisoners brought thither by the Confederate.
Decatur now notified him that, in addition to the terms already named, every American prisoner must be given up without ransom, and the value, to the last penny, of their stolen property restored.
There was one young officer in the American navy who believed the thing could be done, and he volunteered to undertake it.
Captain Hull sailed on a cruise from Boston on August 21, just in time to dodge an order from Washington to remain in port until further orders.
As may be supposed, this daring act caused alarm throughout England.
He told his friends what he wished done in case of his death, and they assured him that every wish should be respected.
That body ordered the construction of thirteen frigates--one for each State--and some of these did noble work, but by the close of the war few of them were left; nearly all had been captured or destroyed.
During the war with Mexico Lieutenant Boggs was ordered to the steamer _Princeton_, which took a leading part in the bombardment of the Castle of St.
Her firing was so rapid that several times Captain Carden believed the incessant flame indicated she was on fire.
His instructions were to fire slowly and with care, the result of which was that guns were continually dismounted and the earth and sandbags sent flying in every direction.
The lives of these famous Americans are worthy of a place in your library.
This fight marked an era in the history of naval warfare.
One of the men on board the _Macedonian_ gave the following graphic account of his experience: "Our men kept cheering with all their might.
Despite General Grant's usual promptness, he did not arrive in time to intercept the flight of the garrison.
On the beach a company of Mexican soldiers were drawn up with a field piece, making ready to annihilate the little American company, as they could do without the slightest difficulty before the gallant sailors could land and make a charge.
The _Infanta Maria Teresa_, leading the procession, was the flagship of Admiral Cervera.
In the month of April, 1861, when a conflict was inevitable, the Government was anxious to send dispatches to Captain Adams commanding the fleet at Pensacola, who was waiting for orders to reinforce with two companies of artillery, that post being in danger of capture by the Confederates.
The _Couronne_ accompanied the _Alabama_ to the limits of French waters, and then turned back.
You know our Government is often slow in meeting its obligations, and it happened now and then we were late in sending our tribute to the swarthy rulers.
A halt for a week was made at the Madeira Islands, when the ships headed southward, reaching Rio Janeiro late in November.
The Confederates had raised her so that her hurricane deck was above the surface.
Both entered the service in 1798, and Stephen is generally regarded as the best type of the young American naval officer during the early years of the present century.
Their sympathies were wholly with England and against the United States, which they hated with an intensity natural to their savage nature.
They were treated with the respect their heroism deserved and on July 6 were exchanged for a number of prisoners held by our forces.
The instant the man disappeared the boy midshipman sprang out of his hammock, crept to the cabin and told Captain Porter what he had seen.
Large type, fine heavy paper, numerous pictures in black, inserted with six lithographic reproductions in ten colors by eminent artists, bound in extra English cloth, with three ink and gold effects.
His health continued to decline till finally the day came when he was compelled to ask for a leave of absence.
Commending you and all who compose your command to the care and protection of God, who rules the world and directs all things, I am, respectfully, your obedient servant, A.H.
The charge has been made, with apparent reason, that several Confederate leaders were concerned in the "deal," seeing as they did, that the end of the Confederacy was at hand.
The impetuous official was certain that war with Spain was at hand, and that one of the most effective blows against that tyrannous power could be struck in the far East, where the group of islands known as the Philippines constituted her most princely possessions.
Farragut, who had been made rear admiral, afforded great aid in taking Port Hudson and cleaning out all rebel fortifications along the Father of Waters.
He said: "From the whole of them being so disfigured, it was impossible to recognize any feature known to us, or even to distinguish an officer from a seaman." In November, Commodore Samuel Barron arrived, and succeeded Captain Preble in command of the American squadron.
He took a ring off his finger, and breaking it apart, gave one portion to Decatur, one to Stewart, and kept the other for himself.
The ketch was renamed the _Intrepid_, and Decatur, for his daring exploit, was promoted to the rank of captain and presented with a sword by Congress.
He assured them that if they ever did his country would send larger and more terrible ships across the ocean that would lay their towns in ashes and slay hundreds of their men.
It was not alone in our wars with the leading nations that the American navy won glory.
While the loss was a severe one to the American navy, it was not difficult to replace it.
Among the vessels of the American squadron were three--the _Guerriere_, _Macedonian_, and the _Peacock_--which had been captured from Great Britain during the late war.
Commodore Schley is a fine tactician, possesses a winning personality and his work with the _Brooklyn,_ off Santiago, on July 3, was neither more nor less than his friends expected of him.
The ships had described seven circles about each other and were starting on the eighth, when Winslow, all alive and eagerness, saw the _Alabama_ set her fore trysail and two jibs and start for shore.
There can be no question of his fine ability nor that, had the opportunity presented, Rear Admiral Sampson, as he had become, would have proven himself among the foremost officers in our navy.
The war having proven the immeasurable value of ironclads of the _Merrimac_ type, the Confederates strained every nerve to build them, often succeeding under the most trying conditions.
Before the start was made, Decatur, Stewart and Somers, all the most intimate of friends, had a long talk in the cabin of the ketch, no one else being present.
It was a humiliating situation for the young commander, but he was virtually in the face of the enemy and he issued prize checks to the malcontents.
In addition to the men lost on the _Tecumseh_, there had been 25 killed and 28 wounded on the _Hartford_, 11 killed and 43 wounded on the _Brooklyn_, the total of all, including those lost on the _Tecumseh_, being 145 killed and 170 wounded.
The craft went through the water at a tremendous speed, and upon coming opposite the forts, Boggs fired his starboard battery and then ordered grape and canister to be used as rapidly as possible.
While engaged on this duty he was seized with yellow fever, and died August 24, 1819, just as his ship reached Port of Spain, Trinidad.
He made all haste to return, but when he arrived the _Florida_ had slipped out and was gone.
The task of blazing away at the guerrillas in the bushes and woods along shore, of raking the muddy rivers and streams for torpedoes, and of managing the awkward, nondescript craft, was not to the liking of the naval officer, accustomed to the free air of the deep, blue ocean.
Both had declared that, if they ever met, the battle would not end until one of the ships went to the bottom, and each knew that the other would keep his word.
She was cheered by the sympathetic thousands, who heard the drums beating to quarters, and fervently prayed that their favorite might return victorious.
The _Bonhomme Richard_ was set on fire by burning wads, but the flames were speedily extinguished.
It took a long time for news to travel in those days, but it finally reached the United States, where Andrew Jackson happened to be President.
One day a letter reached Commodore Preble.
He died a few years after the close of hostilities.
Preble informed him the honor had been given to Decatur.
Captain Landais, commander of the _Alliance_, refused to obey the signals of the flagship, and conducted himself so outrageously that Jones more than suspected his brain was askew.
Then, when a scirrhus cancer appeared on his tongue, a skilful surgeon told him it could be easily removed and need cause him no trouble.
Since our war with England prevented the sending of any force to the Mediterranean at that time, the consul complied and the blackmail was handed to the Dey.
Then it dropped out of sight, as if the bearer had leaped down a hatchway.
Who shall not hear of the deeds she has done?
Just then the heated cannon began firing their huge charges, which, though without aim, were likely to do injury to the Union vessels toward which the battery was floating.
[Illustration: GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON.] (_Afterward President of the United States_.) The most famous achievement was that of the privateer _General Armstrong_, which carried nine long guns, the largest being 24-pounders, or "long nines." She sailed with a large crew, which was depleted to ninety on account of the number in charge of the prizes captured.
In 1777 Vermont formally declared her independence and adopted a State constitution.
The last argument bore no weight with Farragut, who replied that she would be the chief target anyway, no matter what the position, and exposure to fire was one of the penalties of rank in the navy.
The instant this was done the crowd rushed forward and by desperate efforts succeeded in putting out the blaze before it had done much damage.
The cause of the sinking of the _Alabama_ was the same as that which gave us so many wonderful naval victories in the War of 1812.
The ammunition of the Americans was wet and they abandoned the cutter and returned to the _Vincennes_.
"If you do not mind it," said Porter, addressing the visitor, "we will continue our negotiations." In referring to this incident, the Admiral said: "A good Providence, which directs the most important events, sent the battery off toward Fort St.
In the latter part of April it was learned that a Union boat had been decoyed ashore by the display of a white handkerchief and then fired upon.
The untimely death of this naval hero before he had time to complete his work encouraged the West Indian pirates and they became more audacious than before.
It was done by prearrangement with the officers of the _Rappahannock_, in order to give the latter a chance to put to sea.
Captain Porter was a severe disciplinarian, and one of his practices was to have the alarm of fire sounded at all hours of the day or night, that his crew might be taught the successful way of fighting the ever-present danger.
He swung his rawhide with a vigor that made Dewey and the others dance, but they pluckily kept up the assault, until the instructor seized a big stick, intended to serve as fuel for the old-fashioned stove, and laid about him with an energy that soon stretched the rebels on the floor.
They had all the viciousness of wild cats, and it has been shown how fiercely they fought in hand-to-hand encounters; but their experience with the Americans taught them that they were to be dreaded in any situation where their anger was aroused, and, as a consequence, the Turks became less eager for tests of individual strength, skill and bravery.
He was commissioned lieutenant in July, 1862, and was executive officer of the _Wateree_ from 1864 to 1865, having been made lieutenant commander in July, 1866, after which he spent three years again at the Naval Academy, serving as instructor of modern languages.
The hilt which it now has was put there by my gunner." "Were you ever wounded in battle?" I asked.
Ceasing her firing, Captain Jones lowered a boat and sent it to the _Drake_ to take possession.
In charge of seven boats, manned by ninety sailors, he set out and landed under the protection of the fire of the vessels.
The reply to these was a 32-pounder from the _Scorpion_.
The good fortune encouraged all hands, and as the schooner and wreck melted into the darkness the launch swept around a bend in the river and caught the glimmer of the camp fires along the banks, partly extinguished by the falling rain.
The monitors were to advance in single file, slightly in advance of the wooden ships, the _Tecumseh_, Commander Tunis A.M.
In fact, he was so bruised that his teacher thought it prudent to accompany him to his home and explain to his father the particulars of the affray in school.
Captain Downes lost no time in getting under way and arrived off Qualla Battoo in February, 1832, just a year after the treacherous attack upon the _Friendship_.
The _Constitution_ gave most of her attention to the rear ship.
Cushing helped him until he himself had hardly an ounce of strength left, when he was obliged to let go, and the poor fellow, calling good-by, sank from sight.
How hollow sounded the praises of his countrymen when his head was bowed with such overwhelming sorrow!
General Butler, in command of the land troops, after a careful examination of the Confederate works, pronounced capture impossible and refused to sacrifice his men in a useless attack.
He is a fine officer and is a son of the late Commodore Wainwright, who died in the service of his country during the Civil War.
It opened with a cowardly surrender by General William Hull of Detroit to the English army, and for two years our land forces did very little to their credit.
He made his mother inexpressibly happy by sending her the glad news, and thenceforward throughout his stirring life he was one of the most humble, devout and consecrated of Christians.
Growing tired of waiting, Biddle and Captain Warrington, of the _Peacock_, started on an extended cruise, April 13, for the East Indies.
He helped them through the surf, and, when confronted by the native armed boats, made such threats and flourishes with his sword (none of the Americans being armed) that he kept the miscreants at bay and the white men succeeded in reaching the open sea.
Peace came, and, although Farragut was in continual service, promotion was slow.
The first mate and the rest of the crew waited on the vessel to receive and stow away the cargo.
John Ancrum Winslow--His Early Life and Training--The Famous Battle Between the _Kearsarge_ and _Alabama_.
Having destroyed the _Cumberland_, the _Merrimac_ now made for the _Congress_, which had been vainly pelting her with her broadsides.
He had had great difficulty in getting his fifty vessels up the narrow stream, whose current was falling so rapidly that it already appeared impossible to get the fleet past the snags and shoals to the point of safety two hundred miles below.
When the war ended he settled on the western frontier, near Knoxville, Tenn., where at a place called Campbell's Station his son David was born in 1801.
The remainder were scattered over the waters of the globe, such being the policy of President Buchanan's Secretary of the Navy, who, like the Secretary of War and other members of the Presidential Cabinet, were secessionists who did all they could to pave the way for the establishment of the Southern Confederacy.
The total guns carried were 54, with a force of 490 men.
The commander of the _Macedonian_ was Captain John Surman Carden, one of the finest officers in the British service.
The other two took to shallow water under the guns of the fort.
From 1870 to 1874 he was superintendent of the Naval Academy at Annapolis, becoming commodore in 1868, rear admiral in 1872 and was retired in 1886.
It would be hard to correctly state the number of copies of this laughable book that have been sold, but it would reach into the millions.
It was on the 10th of September, 1814, that the two squadrons met at the western end of Lake Erie.
Feeling the faithful officer at work, the Admiral looked down kindly at him and said: "Never mind me, I am all right." But Knowles persisted and did not descend until he had completed his work.
He had fine ships and fine guns, but his crews were undisciplined.
He made sail up the Mediterranean, hoping to beat the despatch boats.
As has been stated, the _Peacock_ and the _Hornet_ had gone to Tristan d'Acunha in obedience to the orders of Commodore Decatur, to wait for him and the _President_, but the latter never arrived, for the good reason that she had been captured by the enemy.
Of course, no matter how daring our cruisers, they did not always escape disaster.
David Porter--A Clever Feat--Numerous Captures by the _Essex_--Her Remarkable Cruise in the Pacific--Her Final Capture.
It was made by one of the acting master's mates, John Woodman, who was exhausted.
The first attempt against Fort Fisher was in the latter part of December, 1864, but, though the fleet was numerous and powerful, and the greatest gallantry was displayed, the attack was unsuccessful.
Some months later, when the Union troops advanced upon Norfolk, the _Merrimac_ was blown up to prevent her falling into the hands of the Federals, while at the close of the year the _Monitor_ foundered in a gale off Cape Hatteras.
Another burst in the coal bunks and cluttered up the engine room.
After he and a midshipman who accompanied him had been insulted repeatedly they were allowed to leave.
When they were almost to the ship the Malays sprang overboard and swam frantically for land.
At the very first opportunity Cushing displayed the wonderful personal intrepidity which was soon to make him the most famous naval officer of his age.
These proceedings left the rightful ruler in the lurch.
A lieutenant was sent on board to receive the surrender, which Dacres gave with painful reluctance.
He knew the counsel was wise and he made application, which was granted.
Doubling Flamborough Head, he came up with his companions, the _Pallas_ and the _Alliance_, the latter having been out of his company for a fortnight.
Decatur threw both legs over the back of the Turk and pressed him so close that he could not force his hand between their bodies to reach his weapon.
As fast as one attempted to climb to his feet he was thumped back again by the club that continually whizzed through the air, and if a boy tried to stay the storm by remaining prone, the instructor thumped him none the less viciously.
They were worked for all that was in them, but the whole fourteen were silenced in little more than half an hour and seven of the quarter deck and forecastle guns were dismounted.
Nevertheless, he was so scared that he signed anew the treaty of 1786, deprived the governor of his commission and confiscated his estates.
We append below the titles of this celebrated line of books: From Boyhood to Manhood; Life of Benjamin Franklin.
[Illustration: THE "OLYMPIA" IN MANILA BAY.] The latter pressed their advantage remorselessly.
When it became certain that the battle was to be one at close range, Hull ordered the firing to cease, in order that the fullest preparation could be made for the next broadside.
You would gain a wrong impression if my account of the leading naval events in the War of 1812 were made up wholly of American victories.
The fifteen-striped flag, which it has been stated was carried through the War of 1812, remained the pattern until 1818, when the change referred to was made.
All the same, we have had a war with her, though it was confined to the ocean and there was no formal declaration on either side.
Dana Green as executive officer.
It may be said that his situation grew more dangerous with every hour.
Jones stood toward them, when the brig signalled to her companions to make all sail before the wind, while she dropped back to attend to the stranger.
On clearing these dangers we kept off to the south and west under all sail, and at 9 P.M.
Porter's aid was so important and his conduct so gallant that he received the thanks of Congress and was created a full rear admiral, his commission dating from July 4, 1863.
The trade in pepper was almost the only one in which Qualla Battoo engaged.
Sad to say, the sailor who made his wish known was one of the first killed in battle.
Reverting to those stirring days, it will be recalled that the Queen Regent of Spain declared war against the United States on April 24, 1898, to which we replied that war had begun three days earlier, when the Madrid government dismissed our minister and handed him his passports.
PAPER Binding, 30c., Postpaid.= By failing to procure any one of these books you lose an opportunity to "laugh and grow fat." When you get one you will order the others.
Before the brig could come to close quarters she was so crippled that she was obliged to withdraw.
They were so close, indeed, that the English gunners could not raise the lower port lids, and they blew them off by firing their cannon through them.
Suddenly from Corregidor Island the darkness was lit up by a vivid flash, a thunderous boom traveled across the bay, and the heavy shot tore its way screaming over the _Raleigh_, quickly followed by a second, which fell astern of the _Olympia_ and _Raleigh_.
It was not long after the war that his friends were pained to observe unmistakable signs of mental unsoundness in the young hero.
When one of his schooners was fired into by the Porto Rican authorities he promptly demanded an explanation, which was given.
The night was cloudy and dark and Porter with a great deal of cleverness pushed his way among the vessels without his identity being suspected.
They sent their valuables ashore and disposed of everything, as if not a man expected to emerge from the fight alive.
SPANISH-ENGLISH " " " $1.00.
She took several unimportant prizes, and, failing to meet the _Thetis_, turned northward and on the night of July 10, 1812, sighted a fleet of merchantmen.
He was successful, secured three vessels and drove the enemy from two pieces of artillery with which they were firing on him at short range.
A shot literally cut the Moorish admiral in two.
Farragut arrived in February, 1862, nearly two months after the beginning of preparations to force the river.
One of the _Alabama's_ 60-pound Blakely shells passed through the bulwarks of the _Kearsarge_, and, bursting on the quarter deck, wounded three men, of whom William Gowin was mortally hurt.
But Farragut, seeing that she still floated, called for a full head of steam that he might deliver a blow that was likely to send his own ship to the bottom.
There, after consulting with his officers, Lieutenant Wilkes decided to make another Antarctic cruise.
An investigation into the cause of the failure of so many shells sent into Tripoli brought out several interesting facts.
The explosion was terrific and was seen and heard for many miles up and down the river.
The power of Spain in the Philippines was forever destroyed, and another glorious victory had been added to the long list that illumines the story of the American navy.
Captain Bainbridge, who carefully noted the results of the bombardment while a prisoner in the city, stated that out of forty-eight thrown on one day only one exploded.
Several of these met their fate through shipwreck.
The boat was pursued by the natives along the bank, but it managed to reach the mouth of the river, where it would have perished in the surf but for the help of a friendly member of an adjoining tribe, who sprang from his armed coasting schooner and swam to their assistance.
The swiftest and best of the captured cruisers were fitted out with crews and added to the American vessel, until Captain Porter had under his command seven ships, carrying 80 guns and 340 men, in addition to nearly a hundred prisoners.
One may imagine the consternation in Manila when the boom of those guns rolled in from the bay, for none could mistake its meaning.
[Illustration: LIEUTENANT RICHMOND PEARSON HOBSON.] Having accomplished as nearly as possible the perilous task the brave party were obliged to remain clinging to a raft until morning, when the Spaniards discovered and made them prisoners.
Every nerve was in this tense state, when suddenly the boom of a cannon came rolling through the fog from the direction of the city, followed soon by the rapid firing of artillery.
The work had hardly begun when a suspicious proceeding caught the eye of Captain Endicott.
Ninety miles below the city, and twenty miles above its mouth, at the Plaquemine Bend, were the forts of St.
There being no doubt of their hostile purpose, Captain Reid several times warned them off, but they paid no attention to him.
Foote placed his boats behind an island a mile below the fort, with a view of avoiding the long range rifles of the Confederates, which were liable to cripple the gunboats before they could get into close action.
But the British vessel suspected his purpose, for she also turned, and, being much the superior sailer, was able to hold a safe distance between the two.
One of the consorts captured an English war vessel in the latter part of June, but was compelled to abandon her on the appearance of a superior force of the enemy, and the squadron put into L'Orient for repairs.
It was known they were formidable monsters, which the Confederates believed could smash and sink the whole Union squadron.
Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Paul Ereaut and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net [Illustration: ADMIRAL GEORGE DEWEY, U.S.N.] DEWEY AND OTHER NAVAL COMMANDERS.
[Illustration: VIEW OF CHARLESTON HARBOR, SHOWING THE SUNKEN VESSELS.] Winfield Scott Schley was born in Frederick, Md., October 9, 1839, and was graduated from the Naval Academy at the beginning of the Civil War.
Four 4.7-inch Hontoria guns; two 2.7-inch, two quick-firing; two 1.5-inch; five muzzle loaders.
While calmly confident, his experience had taught him that such a contest is often decided by a chance shot, and he knew that the doom of one of the ships would be sealed before the set of sun.
Jacob Jones--The _Wasp_ and the _Frolic_--James Biddle--The _Hornet_ and the _Penguin_--A Narrow Escape.
The son received the best educational training and was subjected to the strict religious discipline characteristic of the Puritan families of old New England.
The water assault, however, was deemed a military necessity, and he did not hesitate.
He remained several weeks and then went back to the fleet at Vera Cruz.
The mosquitoes, more persevering, follow us and annoy us the whole night by their noise and bites until, almost mad with heat and pain, we rise to go through the same trouble the next day." Perry sailed three hundred miles up the Orinoco and was undaunted by the fact that the dreaded yellow fever soon appeared among his men.
He had won a world-wide reputation and accepted the appointment of rear-admiral in the Russian navy, but gained no opportunity to display his marvelous prowess.
The principal pass to Mississippi Sound was commanded by Fort Powell, with one mounted 10-inch gun, one 8-inch columbiad and four rifled guns.
It was not long before he observed several boats, crowded with men, leave the _Plantagenet_ and row toward him.
The fire of the _Bonhomme Richard_ became so terrible that every officer and man of the enemy kept out of sight, observing which an American seaman crawled out on the main yard, carrying a bucket of hand grenades which he threw wherever he saw a man.
In the meantime the fort in the middle of the town had been attacked by the other division and carried after a bloody fight in which a marine was killed and a number wounded.
They were enraged, and as their heads rose above the gunwales they shouted, "No quarter!" "No quarter!" replied the Americans, discharging their pistols in their faces and pressing them back into the water with their pikes.
Occasional American Defeats as Well as Victories--Captain Decatur's Misfortune--The _Chesapeake_ and _Shannon_.
The more famous son of Captain Porter was David Dixon, who was born in Chester, Pa., in 1813.
[Illustration: COMMODORE WINFIELD SCOTT SCHLEY.] After resigning this position Captain Schley commanded the cruiser _Baltimore_, which bore the remains of Ericsson, the great Swedish inventor, to his native land, whose king presented Schley with a gold medal in recognition of this service.
He was a midshipman on the _Susquehanna_ in Europe, at the breaking out of the war, and was made master in August, 1861.
A few minutes later a second broadside was fired, but no signal of surrender was made, and the men in the tops continued firing until the American marines picked them off.
In the face of mines, torpedoes and shore batteries, Commodore Dewey had won an overwhelming and crushing victory.
Here was a dilemma indeed.
Birth of the American Navy--The Privateers--Capture of New Providence, in the Bahamas--Paul Jones--A Clever Exploit--A Skilful Escape--Fine Seamanship--An Audacious Scheme.
When Captain Porter learned of this outrage he entered the harbor with several of his vessels and sent a letter to the alcalde or governor, notifying him that he had one hour in which to send an explanation of his action.
Nothing more was attempted that evening, but in the morning the _Carnation_ advanced to the attack of the _General Armstrong_.
They obeyed, and were handled with such skill that all got to sea, with the squadron in hot pursuit.
The _Brooklyn_, further away from shore, changed her course so as to follow a parallel direction, and, as soon as she attained a fair range, opened a tremendous and well directed fire.
To run from our quarters would have been certain death from the hands of our own officers; to give way to gloom or show fear would do no good and might brand us with the name of cowards and insure certain defeat." In the desperate hope of warding off defeat, Captain Garden now ordered his helm aport and directed that boarders be called.
The angered Cushing asked for and received the privilege of retaliating for this treacherous act.
Foote transferred his flag to the ironclad _Benton_ and advanced against the powerful works that had been erected on the island.
In May, the _Albemarle_ steamed down into the Sound and attacked the Union gunboats, which made a heroic defence.
The ship had gained the reputation of being unlucky, and, having already passed through several accidents, Lawrence assumed command with extreme reluctance.
He was made a captain in 1855.
Now and then a rift appeared in the billows of vapor, through which the Stars and Stripes were seen fluttering, while the men worked as coolly at their guns as if going through manoeuvres in time of peace.
Shubrick promptly opened upon them with his cannon, followed by a destructive fire of musketry, which sent the Malays leaping overboard and into the woods.
This powerful squadron was manned by 2,000 men, and was on the way to New Orleans with the purpose of occupying the city.
Our warships penetrated into all waters of the globe, and made people, whether barbarous or civilized, respect and fear the Stars and Stripes.
The _Ranger_ was a fast vessel, and, as I have shown, Jones himself was a master of seamanship.
All lights were put out, the full moon again climbed the sky and the shadowy leviathans plunged through the waters straight for the opening of the bay, guarded by the fort and batteries, with the Spanish fleet beyond, defiantly awaiting the coming of the American squadron.
Out of 108 vessels engaged in the illegal trade he captured 98 and of the several hundred seals unlawfully killed he captured every one.
The discipline was as near perfection as possible, Captain Carden being one of the severest of disciplinarians.
Two small boats were taken along, to be used by the crews after setting off the fuse that was to blow the ketch into a million atoms.
Captain Porter gave a reception to the officials of Valparaiso, and the next morning, while half of the crew were ashore, the _Essex Junior_ signalled from the offing that two British frigates were in sight.
Advancing boldly, he drove in the pickets, and coming across a span of mules hitched to a cart, he tied the rope of the howitzer to the rear, lashed the animals to a gallop and went clattering into the village to the loud shouts of "Forward, double quick!" Just as they entered the formidable body of cavalry were discerned, galloping down the street toward them, swinging their sabres and shouting at the top of their voices.
Within an hour and a quarter of the time the leading vessel passed the forts, all had reached a safe point above, where they engaged in a furious fight with the Confederate flotilla, the smaller members of which were soon disabled or sunk.
"Such an act is anything but creditable to you," remarked Porter, addressing the Confederate commander.
Immediately the American fleet of Admiral Sampson blockaded the ships of the enemy, determined to hold it powerless inside the broad harbor, for it followed, as a matter of course, that so long as it was bottled up there it could do nothing to help Spain.
A little after four o'clock the two exchanged broadsides, but they were so far apart that no damage was done.
His mother belonged to the famous Rhett family of the fiery State of South Carolina.
The little incident well illustrates his character, when, in the midst of the wild rejoicing of his men over the destruction of the Spanish fleet, he checked them with the words: "Don't cheer, boys; the poor fellows are dying!" Lieutenant Commander Richard Wainwright performed an unequalled exploit when in command of the _Gloucester_, formerly the yacht _Corsair_, he wiped out the two torpedo boat destroyers _Pluton_ and _Furor_.
Of course there was good reason for all this.
He reached the United States in June, 1780, without mishap.
The _President_ was not very seaworthy at the start, and the efforts to reach deep water so injured her that it was necessary to return to the city for repairs, but the strong contrary wind prevented and she was driven over the bar.
He held her there for two months, when a French pilot purposely ran the _Kearsarge_ into the piers along shore.
At a special meeting of the President's Cabinet Secretary of War Stanton expressed his belief that the _Merrimac_ would appear in front of Washington and compel the authorities to choose between surrender and destruction, and that the principal seaports would be laid under contribution.
To quote Maclay: "In an instant the frigate belched forth a storm of iron hail that carried death and destruction into the opposing ship.
The Earl was wealthy and the house contained a great deal of valuable silver plate.
I desire you to say to the United States Consul that my intention is to fight the _Kearsarge_ as soon as I can make the necessary arrangements.
They were not disappointed in that respect.
He entered into the work with the same dauntless enthusiasm he showed whenever it was his privilege to serve his country, and his capture of the _Macedonian_ was one of the most brilliant exploits of the many that took place during those memorable years.
Give me the men and ships--there won't be many required--and I'll do it." The President saw that his caller was in earnest, and he respected him too highly to indulge in anything like jesting.
He had been promised that he should be restored to his throne on condition of helping the Americans, and he had given the most valuable sort of aid, but the treaty declared that no assistance should be given him.
But for the temporary veil the American commander could not have made half the brief distance between the _Lawrence_ and the _Niagara_.
In order to make the war effective, it was necessary to enforce a rigorous blockade over three thousand miles of seacoast, open the Mississippi river, and overcome the large and well-officered armies in the field.
It was thrilling news, and the following night, after he had thoroughly rested and been fed by his dusky friend, he moved down the river, found a skiff and in it made his way to the fleet, bringing the first news of the success of an exploit which it is safe to say has never been surpassed in the history of our navy.
One of the finest of its frigates had thrown down the gage of battle to as superb a frigate as belonged to the British navy.
Captain Endicott understood the treacherous nature of the Malays, and he and his crew kept sharp watch of those who were given the management of the vessel's boats, owing to the difficult character of the coast which made such a course necessary.
There he remained, slowly regaining his strength until March, 1862, when it fell to his lot to become a leading actor in one of the most famous naval engagements in all history.
The _Texas_ was struck several times, but did not receive any material damage, while she wrought frightful havoc on the _Vizcaya_.
There was good reason to expect success, but misfortune speedily came.
The Americans pushed hostilities so aggressively that on the following day the islanders sued for peace.
The first western steamboat was built at Pittsburg in 1811.
The boat picked up ten men and officers, while four swam to the beach and were made prisoners.
When the _Providence_ ran into Newport in October she had captured or destroyed fifteen prizes.
It might be supposed that this would cool the air, but not so, for the steam which arises as soon as the sun comes out makes the heat still more intolerable.
To show he was in earnest, he flung his colors overboard.
By this time the demoralized cavalry had fled, and Cushing, after retaining possession of the village until dusk, leisurely made his way back to the boats.
Neither the Ladrones nor Philippines entered into the question; but, inasmuch as they were valuable possessions of Spain, their conquest was a natural and effective blow against the nation with which we were at war.
Then followed, or rather were continued, the vigorous preparations on the part of our authorities for the prosecution of the war to a prompt and decisive end.
All were cool and confident, and the dauntless courage of the commander inspired every one around him.
Lieutenant Commander Richard Wainwright, who was an officer on the _Maine_ when she was destroyed, was now in command of the auxiliary cruiser _Gloucester_, and, without hesitation, he dashed after the destroyers, though for a part of the time he received the fire of Morro Castle, the _Vizcaya_ and both of the dangerous craft he was chasing.
On coming aboard the messengers were presented to Captain Downes and they humbly prayed that he would stop the firing of his big guns, which were killing all their people.
There was much wearing and manoeuvring, which prevented the firing on either side from being effective.
Thomas was broken into and robbed of much valuable property which there was reason to believe had been carried to the small port at the eastern end of Porto Rico known as Foxardo.
Unfortunately for Admiral Sampson, he had gone some miles away to hold a conference with General Shafter when the Spanish fleet made its attempt to escape, but he now came up with the _New York_, eagerly rushing forward to bear a hand in the fight.
It was comparatively early in the evening when the ketch got under way with a favoring breeze.
What's the matter with me?
One proved to be a transport with 150 men and a large amount of supplies for Burgoyne's army, which was at that time organizing in Montreal for its notable campaign through New York, where it was captured by General Gates, at Saratoga.
Then the _Truxton_ was fired and Boggs returned to his ship.
Accordingly, as the _Alabama_ approached, he steamed out to sea, as if running away from his antagonist.
The cause of this frightful difference in results was brought about by the Americans discharging their broadsides when their ship was on the downward roll, the shot landing in the hull of the enemy, while the latter fired on the rise, her broadsides mainly passing into and through the rigging.
Lawrence had just taken an affectionate farewell of his two sons and an hour later was urging his men to "_Peacock_ them!
The War for the Union--A New Era for the United States Navy--Opening of the Great Civil War--John Lorimer Worden--Battle Between the _Monitor_ and _Merrimac_--Death of Worden.
He had under his direct command nearly all the seamen who had served under him and survived the last war.
The enemy's gunboats and the ram _Tennessee_ moved out from behind the fort and continued firing at the wooden boats, giving principal attention, as was expected, to the flagship, which was struck several times.
Germany and France were unfriendly and Aguinaldo treacherous, though Great Britain and Japan were ardent in their sympathy for the United States.
The latter was so badly damaged by the well directed fire of the American that the captain called for quarter.
He gave and received hard knocks, and even at that early age showed evidence of the combative, aggressive courage that became so marked a feature of his manhood.
Foote opened fire when not quite a mile from the fort.
It was probably the admiration formed for his heroic uncle which led the boy to determine to follow in his footsteps, for he was appointed a midshipman when fifteen years old, and saw active service in the Mediterranean against the Greek pirates, to which reference has been made in a previous chapter.
The squadron next sailed to the Hawaiian Islands, where several months were spent in exploration.
Having made several captures, Captain Jones headed for the Isle of Man, his intention being to make a descent upon Whitehaven.
Suddenly the _Almirante Oquendo_ turned toward shore.
They, too, were fighting fiercely, and, closing about the struggling commanders, each side endeavored to help its own.
As usual, the Executive had a swarm of visitors, but he directed the distinguished caller to be admitted at once.
The _Chesapeake_, with a loss of 47 killed and 99 wounded to 24 killed and 59 wounded of the enemy, became the prize of the _Shannon_.
When at last the morning light appeared in the sky, the Americans saw tens of thousands of people crowded along the shore, gazing in terror out on the bay where rode the hostile fleets, soon to close in deadly battle.
In the confusion caused by this treacherous act the enemy's boat got away and started for the city.
He furnished the consul with a cavalry escort, enlisted a number of Greek soldiers, the party marched a thousand miles across the flaming Barcan desert, and in April appeared before Derne, one of the seaports of the reigning monarch, who was also advancing upon the place.
One of his officers had been insulted and he compelled the offenders to make a suitable apology.
Guns, four 6-inch, two 3-pounder rapid-fire, one 1-pounder, and four machine guns.
The titles are: =Peck's Uncle Ike, Peck's Sunbeams, Peck's Red-Headed Boy.
The last named was not one of the original six chosen, but he had been at work on the _Merrimac_ preparing her for the attempt and hid himself away on the lumbersome craft and they were obliged to take him.
In order to get up all the steam possible, the pork among the ship's store was flung into the blazing furnace under the boilers.
Since all doubt of her nationality was dispelled, one of the American seamen walked resolutely to Captain Carden, saluted and told him that he and his companions had no wish to fight the flag of their country.
The _Essex_ had now five hundred prisoners aboard, and they formed an element of serious danger, for they began plotting among themselves to capture the ship from the Americans and turn her over to the enemy.
Both crews made ready to board, but each found the other so fully prepared that neither attempted it.
From Log Cabin to White House; Life of James A.
They seemed to wish to array themselves against all mankind and began a system of action toward us which soon became unbearable.
The _Texas_, whose course was somewhat diagonal, singled out the _Vizcaya_, and, unable to outspeed her, pounded her savagely with her shells.
Vexatious delays prevented the sailing of the squadron until August 14.
A careful search revealed that such was the fact, and all the trouble of the Americans went for naught.
A third lodged in the sternpost, but failed to explode.
It lasted for five hours, when the fort was obliged to surrender, the garrison of 2,300 men becoming prisoners of war.
By and by the increasing smoke made it necessary for the commander to ascend still higher, in order to maintain a clear view of the battle.
Piracy in the West Indies--Its Cause--Means by Which It Was Wiped Out--Piracy in the Mediterranean.
Once more among the ice fields, the ships were menaced by danger from every side.
At 11:30 o'clock she reached the turn which seemed to give our vessels so much trouble, and Captain Smith was congratulating himself on the prospect of soon catching up with the flag officer, when his ship grounded and heeled over three streaks to port.
Without attempting to describe the battle in detail, we will give our attention to the _Mississippi_.
This accomplished their deliverance from what otherwise would have been certain destruction.
The Spaniards had discovered the approach of the squadron.
A far different story was told on the Confederate cruiser.
The most thorough preparations were made and officers were stationed with orders to shoot down the first man who flinched from his duty.
Jones was denounced as a freebooter and pirate, and every effort was made to capture him.
All they asked was a fair chance at the "American pigs." They hoped that nothing would occur to prevent the coming of the fleet, for the Spaniards would never cease to mourn if the golden opportunity were allowed to slip from their grasp.
We had sent several commissioners to Paris, and they did a good deal for our country.
The next day the Ashland Islands were discovered and soon after the two vessels reached Palmersland.
The _Hornet_ had 1 man killed and 11 wounded; the _Penguin_, 10 killed and 28 wounded.
Had the submarine telegraph been known at that time, or had we possessed our ocean greyhounds, a good deal of blood-shed would have been saved, and the most important victory of the whole war would not have been gained.
"It was now seen that it would be impossible to get the ship afloat.
The work accomplished by Captain Porter was almost beyond computation.
The eager Americans, with cutlass and boarding pike in hand, dashed through the gun ports and over the bulwarks.
In a letter from Captain Carden to Captain Decatur he expressed his feelings and added: "I have much gratitude to express to you, my dear sir, for all your kindnesses, and all my officers feel it equally with myself.
Had it done so, its effect would have been terrific.
Of all the battles in which this famous ship was engaged, there was none more remarkable than this.
The moment the bow of the _Varuna_ struck the bank a chain cable was fastened around the trunk of a tree, so as to prevent her from sliding into deep water as she went down and taking the wounded and dead with her.
Captain Foote worked with the tremendous energy which he threw into every task, and succeeded in getting together seven boats, four of which were partly protected by armor.
Springing upon his gun, he grasped the bowsprit of the brig, swung himself upon the spar and ran as nimbly as a monkey to the deck of the enemy.
They were confined first in Morro Castle and later in the city of Santiago.
Having thus cleverly eluded the suspicious watchfulness of the authorities, Lieutenant Worden started for home, but when near Montgomery, Ala., then the capital of the Confederacy, he was arrested, taken from the train and thrown into prison.
When the last shell left the side of the sinking vessel the current had reached the mouth of the piece, and some of it was blown out like mist with the shrieking missile.
This venture was more dangerous than would be supposed, for all the South American countries on that side of the continent were dominated by Great Britain, and in entering the vast expanse the American knew he would meet plenty of enemies and not a solitary friend.
Everybody seemed to have forgotten that there is also a South Pole, which is not a mile further from the equator than the North Pole.
EVANS, OF THE "IOWA."] As soon as he was able to get about he applied for active service and his application was granted.
The boat would have foundered had not the weather been unusually favorable, but she reached Hampton Roads on the night of March 8 and took a position beside the _Minnesota_, ready and eager for the terrific fray of the morrow.
Probably the whole number engaged was about six hundred.
A fire broke out on the _Constitution_, but it was quickly extinguished, and the shot of the American soon made a complete wreck of the enemy.
Lieutenant Morris succeeded in saving himself, but 121 were lost out of the crew of 376.
Allen, of the schooner _Alligator_, was killed by a musket ball.
Knowing that such an attack was certain to be made, the Confederates had neglected no precaution in the way of defence.
The reigning Bashaw of Tripoli was a usurper, having displaced his elder brother, who had fled to Upper Egypt.
The _Monongahela_ was the first to reach the monster, struck her fairly, and, swinging around, let fly with a broadside of 11-inch shot, which dropped harmlessly from her mailed side.
The subsequent history of that quarter of the world leaves no doubt that the impressive warning of Captain Downes produced the best of results, for Sumatra has never required any further attention from our navy.
He therefore flooded his magazine, blocked the pumps, bored holes through the bottom of the ship in order to sink her if his enemies succeeded in releasing her, and then struck his flag.
The Spanish-American War--The Movement Against Cuba--The Destruction of Cervera's Fleet--Admiral Sampson--Admiral Schley--"Fighting Bob" Evans--Commodore John C.
The racket terrified the mules, which broke into a gallop, dragging the cart and ammunition after them, and never paused until they were among the ranks of the enemy.
Captain Wilkes was highly applauded for his act by his countrymen, but England was very indignant.
When a prize was taken the lucky officers and crews divided the plunder.
The brig _Truxton_ unfortunately ran aground on the bar of Tuspan River and had to be surrendered to the Mexicans.
They were the steam frigates _Minnesota_ and _Roanoke_ and the sailing frigates _Congress_, _Cumberland_ and _St.
The grief-stricken and enraged captain instantly cast his prize adrift and started after the "unspeakable Turk." The boat was easily recognized, and, delivering a destructive fire, the pursuer ran alongside and the Americans rushed aboard, with Decatur in the lead.
The private property of the officers and seamen was returned or its equivalent in money.
Tilghman, the Confederate commander, displayed great bravery, fighting until every one of his guns was dismounted.
Nothing could be more trying than the waiting of the craft outside, for Somers' own vessel and two small ones were near at hand.
Women and children ran to the churches and knelt in frenzied prayer; men dashed to and fro, not knowing what to do, while the Spanish soldiers, who had not believed the American ships could ever pass the harbor torpedoes and mines, were in a wild panic when they learned that the seemingly impossible had been done.
An incident is related by Z.K.
When the village was reached it was found to be defended by a strong stockade, with a trench inside, from which the crouching natives could fire through loopholes, while outside of the stockade was a deep ditch of water.
"I am inclined to think as you do, Commodore, but--" "But _what_?" impatiently interrupted the veteran.
Andrew Sterrett was executive officer of the _Constellation_, which captured the French frigate _L'Insurgente_, in 1799, and _La Vengeance_, in 1800.
HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.= +------------------++---------------------------------+ | || This popular novel writer | | || has written a large | | || number of successful | | || books that have been widely | | || circulated and are constantly | | _The_ || in demand.
He was engaged in various duties and in October, 1891, he arrived in command of the _Yorktown_ at Valparaiso, directly after the attack of a mob of Chilians upon the sailors of the _Baltimore_.
In the following year a still more powerful squadron went to the West Indies under the command of Captain James Biddle, who did such valiant service in the War of 1812.
The only way of blocking this far-reaching and dangerous scheme was for the Americans to regain control of Lake Erie, and to young Perry was assigned the seemingly almost impossible task.
The effort of each was now to keep his starboard broadside presented to the other, the attempt causing the two ships to describe an immense circle, the diameter of which steadily decreased, until it was barely a third of a mile.
Then the coast of Oregon was visited and the _Peacock_ suffered wreck at the mouth of the Columbia.
They were under the command of Commander Robert H.
During that last impressive interview Stewart asked Somers what he would do if discovered and attacked by the enemy.
Their names are Morocco, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli.
Then, when no one was dreaming of danger, his men silently pulled away from the _Ranger_ in two boats, one commanded by himself and the other by Lieutenant Wallingford.
Some weeks later he steamed into New River Inlet, with the object of capturing Jacksonville and destroying the salt works.
He gave his parents and neighbors a good deal of anxiety, and Dr.
The _Brooklyn_ gradually drew ahead and the Spaniard, seeing that escape was out of the question, hauled down his flag.
Goodwin, daughter of the "war Governor" of New Hampshire.
Sampson exposed himself fearlessly and the ship met with a fearful disaster by being blown up by a submarine mine.
He was placed in command of a cumbrous ironclad constructed from a ferryboat at the beginning of the war and named the _Essex_, in honor of the famous cruiser with which his father played havoc with the shipping of Great Britain in the Pacific.
For several years, however, a squadron was maintained there and more than once its services were needed, but the work was completed and since then no trouble in that quarter of the world of the nature described has plagued either ourselves or any other nation.
In this battle the _Constitution_ had 4 killed and 10 wounded, while on the _Cyane_ and _Levant_ 35 were killed and 42 wounded.
I am sure you have all heard of him, for his name was John Paul Jones, though since, for some reason or other, he dropped his first name and is generally referred to simply as Paul Jones.
On January 15, 1865, the _Patapsco_ attempted to force an entrance into the harbor of Charleston, which was one network of mines.
Having failed to bring the Bashaw to terms by force of arms, the Americans now resorted to what may be termed diplomacy.
Although exposed to the same fire as the _Carondelet_, he was equally fortunate, and ran the gauntlet with the same good fortune.
Phillips, Francis Kelly, George Charette, Daniel Montague, J.C.
Impatient with the delay involved in recapturing the _Friendship_, by attacking at long range, as it may be called, three boats were filled with armed men who rowed straight for the vessel.
The Bashaw of Tripoli was not yet subdued.
=_Samantha at Saratoga_= By Josiah Allen's Wife.
Then, by his directions, the men rowed with all speed straight for the enemy, who were thus disarmed of their hostile purpose.
They were often obliged to deplete their crews to that extent in order to man their prizes that barely enough were left to manage their own ships.
Of course I shall have more to tell you about him later on.
The _Mississippi_ was a sidewheel steamer, carrying seventeen guns, and was destined to a thrilling career in the stirring operations of the West Gulf squadron, under the command of Captain David Glasgow Farragut, the greatest naval hero produced by the Civil War, and without a superior in all history.
A drawn battle is always unsatisfactory to two armies, and George determined to have it out in the schoolroom with the teacher, who, expecting the struggle, had prepared for it and was as eager as the boys for the fight.
The other four seamen sprang overboard and swam for land.
Mosquitoes, sand flies and gnats cover you, and as the sun gets up higher it becomes entirely calm and the rays pour down a heat that is insufferable.
Any of these books will be mailed, postpaid, upon receipt of Fifty Cents.
The _Oregon_, the finest ship in our navy, which had come more than 14,000 miles from the Pacific coast, was ploughing forward under forced draught, and, with a tremendous burst of speed, shot past the _Texas_ and drew up on the _Brooklyn_ in the effort to head off the leading fugitive, while the _Iowa_ was doing her utmost to maintain her killing pace and was firing her great guns with splendid precision.
Guns, main battery, four 8-inch, ten 5-inch, rapid-fire; secondary battery, rapid-fire, fourteen 6-pound, seven 1-pound, four Gatlings, one field gun and five torpedo tubes.
Oliver Hazard Perry--Prompt and Effective Work--"We Have Met the Enemy and They Are Ours"--Death of Perry.
Captain Lawrence sailed out of Boston harbor before Broke's challenge reached him.
Contrary to the rule that great men never have great sons, Captain Porter left two boys who possessed the same remarkable qualities as himself and one of whom became more famous than his gallant father.
It gave an impetus to river navigation by steam, and before long the boats were ploughing the principal streams of the country.
His accumulated sixty chronometers were sent ashore, and the motto displayed by his ship was "_Aide toi et Dieu t'aidera_," meaning, "Help yourself and God will help you," another version of the old adage, "God helps them that help themselves." The church chimes were sending out their mellow notes on the warm summer air when the _Alabama_ began slowly steaming out of the harbor.
Pangborn for having punished him with such severity, frankly adding: "I believe if you hadn't done so I should have ended my career in the penitentiary." Dr.
He remembered seeing Benedict Arnold burned in effigy in Philadelphia in 1781; he recalled Paul Jones, and had drunk wine and talked with Washington.
[Illustration: THE BATTLE OF LAKE ERIE.] In the following month Harrison invaded Canada, with Proctor retreating before him, and accompanied by the famous Indian, Tecumseh, and several hundred of his warriors.
Captain Jones himself lashed the spar to the rigging, knowing that his only chance was in fighting at close quarters, but the swaying of the ships broke them apart.
The forts were passed and the victory of Mobile Bay was secure.
The American came up quite close, and hailing, demanded the name of the other.
He had risen from the lowest to the highest rank by his indomitable valor and skill.
When the insignificance of the American party is remembered, there was something amusing in this; but the Mexican officer not only gave his promise, but entertained his visitors until the gale was over.
This appalling accident was a serious loss to Captain Foote, for Porter was doing inestimable service when thus driven out of action, but the daring commander pressed forward in the face of the murderous fire, encouraged by the visible results of his shots, which were playing frightful havoc against the defences of the fort.
The loss of the Union fleet was thirty-seven killed and one hundred and forty-seven wounded, while the Confederate land forces had twelve killed and forty wounded.
The singular scheme he had in mind was solely for the benefit of his adopted countrymen.
The bow of the ironclad dipped below the surface, and a most extraordinary and inglorious end seemed inevitable, when the _Southfield_ touched bottom, rolled over and freed itself from the bow of the ram, which popped up again.
From the station he made his way straight to the White House and sent in his name to President Lincoln.
They set out to invade Canada several times, but in every instance were beaten.
At the former place extensive batteries had been erected and were defended by an army, while the river below bristled with batteries and guns in charge of brave men and skilful officers.
Now, it would have been an easy thing for any one of the Christian nations interested to send a fleet into the Mediterranean, which, speaking figuratively, would have wiped those miscreants off the face of the earth; but such an enterprise would have cost a good deal of money, so, instead of punishing the wretches as they deserved, the countries paid them a yearly sum of money on their promise not to disturb vessels when they ran across them.
Late in the day, February 9, 1804, the ketch left Syracuse for Tripoli, accompanied by the _Siren_, Lieutenant Stewart, to cover the retreat.
The cruise lasted three years, and Foote returned to New York in the spring of 1837.
The prodigious broadsides were launched again and again, but produced no more effect than so many paper wads from a popgun.
After waiting for several days, the night of September 4 was found to be just what was desired.
He had a good many friends, who, if they dared, would have been glad to replace him on his throne.
Before the Turk could strike a third time, Decatur ran in, and the two instantly engaged in a fierce wrestling bout.
Jacob Jones--The _Wasp_ and the _Frolic_--James Biddle--The _Hornet_ and the _Penguin_--A Narrow Escape.
They did their work so effectively that by and by they extended their attacks to the vessels of all nations.
His ostensible purpose was to complete the conquest of Texas and Louisiana, but there is good reason to believe that the famous Red River expedition was little more than a huge cotton speculation.
At present he is a member of the Board of Inspection and Survey.
With the same coolness that he had shown when driven ashore in Mexico, the command was given for the guns to be fired "on both sides." Indeed, there were so many targets that it would have been about as difficult to miss as to hit one.
That is the sinking of the collier _Merrimac_ in the channel of the harbor by Lieutenant Richmond Pearson Hobson, on the night of June 3.
The quartermaster stood grimly clutching the wheel, a lieutenant, bleeding from several wounds, was leaning against the companionway, unable to stand without its support, while all along the deck were strewn the dead and dying.
"We're going to blow you up!" The Confederates, however, did not follow the advice and the launch fired her howitzer.
The engineer immediately opened the flue caps and all was darkness again.
The fire of the fleet and from the shore soon raised a smoke which made these precautions useless, while it involved the ships in a danger greater than any from the enemy's guns.
10, and to pass within 300 yards of it.
The strategem was successful, for at daylight the frigate was pressing hard after the _Alfred_, while the prizes had disappeared.
Then, finding himself powerless to offer further resistance, he hauled down his flag.
They eagerly welcomed the chance of winning glory.
Do not fail to procure one or more of these noted volumes.
He had had sufficient experience at that sort of work to give him confidence, and he liked the business.
His condition was so hopeless that no choice was left to him.
The city of Manila, with a population numbering about a quarter of a million, lies on the western side of Luzon, the principal island, with a magnificent bay in front, extensive enough to permit all the navies of the world to manoeuvre with plenty of elbow room.
"Set fire to the shipping!" he commanded to his men, while he, with only a single companion, ran for a second fort some distance away and spiked the guns in that.
To his tact, prudence, self-control, firmness, diplomacy and masterful wisdom were due the fact that no complication with foreign powers occurred and that the United States escaped a tremendous war, whose consequences no one could foresee or calculate.
Some twenty miles beyond lay the city of Manila, and about ten miles to the south was Cavit, constituting the strongly fortified part of the city proper.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN CHARLES WILKES.] Lieutenant Charles Wilkes was born in 1798 and died in 1877.
His last words, often repeated in his delirium, were "_Don't give up the ship!_" and they formed the motto of the American navy for many years afterward.
You have already been told considerable about Stephen Decatur, one of the bravest and most chivalrous men that ever drew a sword.
His first service was on the _Alfred_, which helped in the capture of the fort at New Providence, already spoken of.
Deceived possibly by the report of the howitzers in her top, which were nearly on their own level, the Confederates did not depress their guns sufficiently to hit her as often as they did the ships that followed her.
Captain Evans does not like the name "Fighting Bob", for he feels he has no more claim to the distinction than the rest of his associates.
Suddenly the _Vizcaya_ broke into flames and headed for shore.
This was on the 26th of September.
Wallingford reached the north side, and then, strangely enough, gave up the attempt, his reason being that the candle on which he counted to start the fire was blown out.
A violent wind that night baffled him, and, hoping to prevent his presence in the section from being discovered, he kept his vessel disguised as a merchantman.
Midshipman Henry Wadsworth, an uncle of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, the poet, was the second in command.
Great Britain had been at war so long that she had the most powerful navy by far in the world.
The ingenuity and skill displayed by Captain Hull in escaping from the enemy, when all escape seemed hopeless, is still referred to as one of the most remarkable exploits in the history of the American navy.
Our hero entered the institution September 23, 1854.
The American was the most skilful, but by sheer strength his enormous antagonist threw him to the deck, and, gripping him by the throat with one hand, he reached down to draw a small curved knife, known as a yataghan.
[Illustration: BRITISH ATTACK ON SULLIVAN ISLAND.] (_Our Last Naval Engagement with England_.) In this brief but terrific struggle there were only two Americans killed and seven wounded, while the enemy acknowledged a loss of thirty-four killed and eighty-six wounded, the former including the leader of the expedition.
The captain of the _Constitution_, when the war broke out, was Isaac Hull, a nephew of General William Hull, who made the cowardly surrender of Detroit.
It was away back in 1633 that the first Englishman bearing the name of Dewey arrived in Massachusetts with a number of other emigrants.
The first boat, after receiving its load, passed the short distance necessary down the river to the sea, where, instead of rowing directly out to the ship, it turned up the coast and took on board more men.
The Spaniards proclaimed that they would send every one of the American vessels to the bottom; but they had made similar boasts before, and their bombast did not quiet the fears of the people, among whom a panic quickly spread.
Eveleth Winslow, of the corps of engineers, who had the honor of being graduated at the head of his class.
Gunboat _Manileno_, built in 1887, wood, 142 tons, 9 knots, and mounting three 3.5-inch rifles.
He studied medicine, practiced his profession at Montpelier, the capital, and became one of the most respected and widely known citizens of the State.
None of her crew was drowned, but the vessel itself was lost, despite every effort to save her.
Some cannon on the ships were discharged at the boats, but their shots went wild.
The British sloop of war _Drake_, which the gale prevented him from attacking, was still at Carrickfergus, and Jones sailed thither in the hope of inducing her to come out and fight him.
"I am not responsible for the acts of the naval officers," replied the visitor.
Meanwhile the usurper was shivering with fear, and was more than ready to make a treaty of peace with the terrible barbarians from the other side of the ocean.
Reinforcements were landed and the savages put to flight, but in the fighting Midshipman Underwood and Henry Wilkes were mortally hurt and a seaman dangerously wounded.
The days of wooden vessels were numbered.
Such enterprises often succeed through their very boldness, and his belief was that by acting quickly he could accomplish his purpose and strike a blow at England that would carry consternation to the people and the government.
The Rajah in command, after a desperate defence in which he wounded several Americans, was finally despatched.
This little anecdote, which is authentic, may serve to introduce my last references to one of the most remarkable naval heroes of our country.
Every ounce of plate shall be returned." He kept his word.
The work being apparently completed, the bugle was sounded for retreat and the Americans returned to the beach.
He was older, as you will notice, than the three whom I have mentioned.
The Union expedition consisted of six sloops of war, sixteen gunboats, twenty mortar schooners and five other vessels.
Unable to deliver an effective shot, the enemy could kill every one of his men.
If ever we should turn the tables we will endeavor, if possible, to improve on your unusual goodness." CHAPTER XIV.
The squadron under the command of Commodore Dewey was as follows: _Olympia_--Protected cruiser (flagship), 5,500 tons.
As before, Dewey was the leader in the attack on the pedagogue, who was wiry, active, and strong.
Captain Porter's instructions were to meet the _Constitution_ and _Hornet_, which were cruising in that part of the world.
It was necessary for the boy to take up a nominal residence in that distant territory, and on the journey thither and back he encountered many personal dangers through all of which he conducted himself with the pluck and bravery which afterward distinguished him in the service of his country.
A curious incident is mentioned by his biographer.
The lieutenant was now transferred to one of the gunboats of Admiral Farragut's squadron and engaged in patrol duty between Cairo and Vicksburg.
Knowing all this, Admiral Cervera was loth to venture out of the harbor of Santiago, and the days and weeks passed in idleness while the monotonous blockade continued.
He was the son of an ordinary day laborer and had few early educational advantages, but he was appointed to the Naval Academy and was graduated at the head of his class.
Porter was promoted to be vice-admiral in 1866 and admiral in 1870.
Then the _Governor Moore_ rammed the _Varuna_ twice in quick succession.
It began snowing the following night and the _Providence_ and _Alfred_ were obliged to separate.
Hardly two hours later the American squadron advanced again to the attack, and Admiral Montojo was observed to transfer his flag from the doomed _Reina Cristina_ to the _Isla de Cuba_, which soon after was also ablaze.
Captain Winslow received the promotion to the grade of a commodore which he had so gallantly won.
Upon second thought they decided to leave the Americans to themselves.
Though it will be impossible to remove her from her anchorage and thus restore this beautiful vessel to our navy, yet, as she may and no doubt will be repaired, an important end will be gained by her destruction." Captain Bainbridge had sent several similar letters to Preble, his good friend, the Swedish consul, being the man who secured their delivery.
It was toward the close of the first day of summer, with thousands crowding the hills and points of advantage and peering at the ships through glasses, that the battle opened by the fire of the _Shannon_.
Nothing daunted, Farragut prepared to ram once more, when his ship was badly injured by an accidental blow from the _Lackawanna_.
It is a mistaken though general impression of "Fighting Bob" that he is simply a headlong and reckless fighter.
The captain of the yacht, after picking up thirty-nine men, including a number of officers, instead of delivering them to Captain Winslow, as he was in honor bound to do, edged away from the scene, and, putting on all steam, did not pause until he reached Southampton.
The effect of this carefully aimed broadside at short range was terrific.
Still, what could we do but keep up a semblance at least of animation?
As you will learn, Stewart had a great deal to do with that war, and most of the incidents that follow were told to me by him, a fact which insures their truthfulness and interest.
Stewart sat amused and interested until he saw they were becoming angry, when he interfered.
Another struck the _Varuna's_ pivot gun and killed and wounded a number more.
The Earl of Selkirk was a Scottish nobleman who had his country seat at the mouth of the Dee, and Jones made up his mind that he was just the man to serve for a hostage.
Myriads of mosquitoes and gnats come off to the vessel and compel us to sit over strong smoke created by burning oakum and tar, rather than endure their terrible stings, until, wearied and exhausted, we go to bed to endure new torments.
The buccaneers were hunted down without cessation and nest after nest broken up until, at the close of 1825, piracy in those waters was practically suppressed.
It was a gross injustice on the part of our Government, which did no special credit to itself, when, after the deposed ruler had made a pitiful appeal to Congress, that body presented him with a beggarly pittance of $2,400.
The old admiral kept his hired man busy and enjoyed his own work.
They walked silently through the darkness to the fine grounds, and, having surrounded the handsome building, the officer in charge of the party presented himself at the door and made known his startling errand.
David Porter--A Clever Feat--Numerous Captures by the _Essex_--Her Remarkable Cruise in the Pacific--Her Final Capture.
All the same, our brethren across the ocean are very willing to own that we fought them right well.
I beg she will not depart before I am ready to go out.
They comprised the _Scorpion_, _Ariel_, _Lawrence_ (flagship), _Caledonia_, _Niagara_, _Somers_, _Porcupine_, _Tigress_ and _Trippe_.
He intimated to General Grant that he must not linger if he wished to cut off the retreat of the enemy.
On the 8th the island was surrendered to Captain Foote and General Pope, including the garrison of 5,000 men.
This fact gave peculiar point to the reproof of the Dey's prime minister to the British consul: "You told us that the Americans should be swept from the seas in six months by your navy, and now they make war upon us with some of your own vessels which they took from you." CHAPTER XX.
Each felt the gravity of the situation.
| +------------------------------++--------------------------+ Any of these books will be mailed upon receipt of 50 cents.
If any nation acted that way toward England to-day she would declare war at once, and so would any other nation.
His pilot was a brave man, but under the frightful fire he began to show a nervousness that caught the eye of Foote.
The report was spread among his men to encourage them, but no such good fortune came to the Englishmen.
Each was wary of the other and took the utmost pains to prevent his securing any advantage.
By the opening of 1803 there were nine of our ships, carrying two hundred and fourteen guns, in the Mediterranean waters.
Thus he was left no alternative but to return to Cairo.
Proctor halted near the Moravian Towns, where a battle was fought October 5, in which the British and Indians were decisively defeated.
A single shot from the _Kearsarge_ killed and wounded eighteen men and disabled a gun.
Decatur replied that they must be negotiated on board the _Guerriere_ and nowhere else.
He was commissioned lieutenant in 1798, and the year following commanded the _Essex_.
Manned by brave officers and crew, it came down the Yazoo into the Mississippi, and, secure in her fancied invulnerability, challenged the whole Union fleet which was assisting in the siege of Vicksburg.
As the wind blew aside the dense smoke, it was seen that the _Reina Cristina_, the Spanish flagship, was in flames.
Lieutenant Platt, of the _Beagle_, anchored off the town and asked the help of the authorities in capturing the criminals and recovering the property.
Captain Dacres was confident of his superiority, and had no doubt that when the two frigates met the _Constitution_ would be compelled speedily to strike her colors.
Another English frigate was likely to appear at any moment, and she would make short work of the _Constitution_ in her crippled condition.
It looked as if the surprise would be complete, when a dog, more watchful than his masters, began barking.
She had no more right to molest an American vessel than she had to land a force on our coast, march inland and search the house of a private family.
A pigeon became so frightened by the smoke and racket that it flew hither and thither, and finally perched on my shoulder.
In the former it caused wild rejoicing and raised hope that before the resistless might of the new ironclad the North would be compelled to make terms and save her leading seacoast cities from annihilation by acknowledging the Southern Confederacy.
At midnight he hoisted a toplight and tacked to the west, knowing the others would continue to the southward as he had directed.
Porter advised the commander to remain where he was until the spring rains would enable the fleet to ascend the river again, but Banks was too frightened to do anything but retreat, and he kept it up until he arrived at New Orleans.
He entered the Naval Academy at the age of fourteen and was graduated near the head of his class in June, 1860.
The _Texas_ opened with her big guns and her companions quickly joined in the thunderous chorus.
He appointed Porter consul general at Algiers.
It is safe to say that no book, illustrating the doings of children, has ever been published that has reached the popularity enjoyed by "Helen's Babies." Brilliantly written, Habberton records in this volume some of the cutest, wittiest and most amusing of childish sayings, whims and pranks, all at the expense of a bachelor uncle.
The Englishman turned southward and was within a few days' sail of the islands when, on the 25th of October, the man at the masthead reported a sail.
The Greatest of Naval Heroes--David Glasgow Farragut.
Her armament consisted of an Armstrong 100-pounder in the bow and another in the stern, the casemate being so pierced that the guns could be used at broadside or quarter.
Naturally strong and rugged, accustomed to the ozone of the ocean and toned up by the variety of the service, even in times of peace, the monotony of a continual round of the same duties told upon him, and his physician advised him to apply for sea service.
He crowded on all sail once more, but the scurrying clouds which gave him a chance of escaping were swept from the sky and the bright moon revealed him so plainly to his pursuers that they rapidly overtook the _President_.
At the bend of the river the current caught the _Hartford_ on her port bow, sweeping her around with her head toward the batteries, and nearly on shore, her stern touching the ground slightly; but by her own efforts and the assistance of the _Albatross_ she was backed clear.
He had learned that a single frigate had presumed to blockade the port, and, having been ordered to sail as soon as possible, he made unwise haste in venturing to give the _Shannon_ battle, even though one cause was the wish to leave the port before other blockaders appeared.
While it was known that much was to be feared from the forts, it was the ironclads that formed the uncertain factor and magnified the real danger in many men's minds.
Before they could get within range the Moorish admiral took the alarm, and, crowding on every stitch of canvas, made a resolute effort to escape.
The tremendous land batteries opened on this weak force the moment it came within range, and the results were of the most destructive nature.
[Illustration: COMMODORE PERRY AT THE BATTLE OF LAKE ERIE.] With his broad pennant folded over his arm, and accompanied by a younger brother and four seamen, he stepped into the small boat, which began pulling in the direction of the _Niagara_.
All were gently lifted into the boats and carried to the ship.
Great damage was inflicted and much execution done by the return broadside of the _Chesapeake_.
An officer ran to the quarter deck to haul down the colors, but they had been shot away.
The enemy hailed a second time and called out they had surrendered.
Some of the escapes were of the most thrilling nature.
A second challenge bringing no response, several muskets flashed in the night.
The _Hornet_ drew steadily away from the British ship of the line _Cornwallis_, as she proved to be, and made her way at a leisurely speed to the United States.
George was gifted by nature with rugged health, high spirits and indomitable pluck and fearlessness.
It was just the other way on the ocean.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN JAMES LAWRENCE.] The crew of the _Chesapeake_ was inferior in every respect to that of the enemy, except that it contained ten more men.
While our patriot armies have done nobly, it is none the less true that we never could have become one of the greatest nations in the world without the help of our heroic navy.
A strong armed force in several boats secretly rowed to land at the time named, but day was approaching when they reached the beach, where the men landed under the guidance of the former second mate of the _Friendship_ and started inland.
One was the _Essex_, which was playing havoc among the English shipping (and of which I shall tell you something later on), and the other that of Captain Stephen Decatur, the courteous but brave naval officer who had displayed so much intrepidity in the war with Tripoli and had insisted to Carden that the American sailors were the match of the English anywhere.
He went to his old home in Montpelier, where he was spending the days with his friends, when the country was startled and electrified by the news that Fort Sumter had been fired on in Charleston harbor and that civil war had begun.
I cheered with them, though I confess I scarcely knew what for.
He was compelled to give up all ambition in that direction and to take up the study of theology.
The superior aim of the American speedily crippled the rigging of the other, and, coming together, the _Penguin_, as the British vessel proved to be, in preparing to board, succeeded in passing her bowsprit between the main and mizzen rigging of the _Hornet_ on the starboard quarter.
In the War for the Union Captain Wilkes commanded the James River squadron, was made commodore in 1862 and was retired in 1864 and made rear-admiral on the retired list.
He displayed the Danish colors, still maintaining the guise of a merchantman, and sent a boat's crew to take soundings along shore.
The approach of the _Intrepid_ had been discovered, and it seemed as if all the enemy's batteries were blazing away at her.
Perry took his position aft and with calm dignity received the surrender.
The river fell so rapidly that all the fleet would have been stranded above the falls but for the genius of Lieutenant-Colonel Joseph Bailey, of Wisconsin, a military engineer who accompanied Banks's expedition.
Among others, an English brig had been seized, but Lieutenant Lewis M.
Cushing took in tow a small cutter, in which he intended to capture the Confederate guard, that was in a schooner anchored near the wrecked _Southfield_, and prevent their sending up an alarm rocket as a warning to the sentinels above of the approach of danger.
Then he called out to know whether the treaty was signed.
In deference to Pope's earnest request, Captain Foote consented to prepare another boat, but would not permit it to start until the night was favorable.
This depletion of his crew so weakened it that Captain Jones wisely refrained from remaining long in one place.
There were only two vessels of war in the fleet, and he immediately gave the signal for pursuit.
[Illustration: ANDREW HULL FOOTE.] The _Grampus_ went to the West Indies in quest of pirates, but never found any.
Stewart knew that his only chance was to get away before they shut him in, for the experience of the _Essex_ at Valparaiso proved that the neutrality of no port would protect an American cruiser.
Sailing hither and thither, generally capturing all vessels that he sighted, he finally turned across to the Irish coast and in the latter part of the month was off Carrickfergus, where he learned from some fishermen that the British sloop-of-war _Drake_ was at anchor in the roads.
We offer the same book in all respects for 30 cents, postpaid.
On the 15th, everything being favorable, the crew of the ketch bade good-by to their friends and set out on their perilous mission.
One curious effect of this dragging in the water was to make the wreckage act like a rudder, bringing her up to the wind in spite of the opposition of the helm.
All attempts to run down the _Monitor_ were vain.
One or more of these suddenly exploded, the front dipped and the _Tecumseh_ plunged bow foremost to the bottom of the bay, carrying with her 93 men out of a crew of 114.
He lived to be more than ninety years of age, dying in 1869, and for a good many years occupied a modest little home, just below Bordentown, New Jersey.
There seemed no possible escape for Jones, knowing which, he did a remarkable thing.
All the Americans had entered the small boat and were impatiently awaiting their commander.
All the Americans, including Decatur, were disappointed, but as he had promised, he waited until the boat was within hail.
Upon learning that the war had broken out, Captain Hull left the Chesapeake, with orders to join the squadron under the command of Captain Rodgers at New York.
The weather became so bad that the attempt had to be postponed, since the ketch was sure to be dashed to pieces on the rocks.
An Unexpected Preacher--Andrew Hull Foote--His Character and Early Career--His Brilliant Services in the War for the Union.
Among the plunder taken away was $12,000 in specie.
Admiral Cochrane was so incensed by the rough treatment his men had received that he determined to throw neutrality to the winds and destroy the defiant privateer.
Louis, and Winslow was sent to join him.
New Orleans was defended by three thousand volunteers, most of the troops formerly there having been sent to the Confederate army in Tennessee.
In one of these attacks Lieutenant William H.
He was provided, in addition to his warships, with a number of barges, furnished with twenty oars apiece, and which were indispensable in following the pirates up the shallow creeks and into the shoal waters where the vessels could not go.
The Commodore had been in that part of the world before, and while waiting at Hong Kong had gathered all the knowledge possible of the defences of Manila.
So, I repeat, I am sure you will be interested and instructed in learning the story of the heroes who have done so much for us; and their example cannot fail to inspire you with loftier heroism, greater devotion, and deeper resolve to do all you can for our favored land, which is the fairest that ever sun shone upon.
In the attack on Fort Henry, in February, 1862, the _Essex_, while doing effective service, had her boiler pierced by a shot from the enemy, with appalling consequences.
The father had gone to Wilmington from Boston, to establish a commercial house, four years before the birth of the son, who was sent North to be educated.
My feelings were pretty much as I suppose every one else felt at such a time.
A furious engagement followed, in which Decatur lost several of his most valuable officers and was himself painfully wounded by flying splinters.
It was at this critical moment that the captain of the _Alliance_ once more showed his insubordination.
On the 20th of February, 1815, when off the coast of South America, he gave chase to two of the enemy's vessels, one of which proved to be the _Cyane_ and the other the _Levant_.
The bombardment of the fort was terrific and produced great effect.
Then the law was changed so as to provide that the increase of States should be shown by the stars in the blue field, while the stripes should always remain thirteen in number, typical of the original colonies of the Revolution.
But the hour for opening the services came and passed and the preacher, the one indispensable individual, did not appear.
He obeyed and passed a lead line to one of the forward shrouds and then drew it around the Admiral to the after shroud and made it fast.
This was in compliment to Franklin, who was often called "Poor Richard" by his admiring countrymen, because for many years he had published "Poor Richard's Almanac," filled with wise and witty sayings.
Anxious to prevent his errand becoming known so that he might surprise the Malays, Captain Downes disguised his ship as a merchantman, closing his ports and taking every precaution possible.
The attempt was made on the night of March 14, 1863, with the _Hartford_ in the lead, and followed by the _Richmond_, _Monongahela_ and _Mississippi_, with the smaller boats.
He was commander of the _Hornet_ when she captured the _Peacock_ in an engagement which lasted only fifteen minutes, with the loss of one American killed and two wounded.
He was fond of taking long walks, and it is said that some of the people suspected that he belonged to a gang of plotters who intended to cut the Croton Aqueduct, but the quiet man was simply awaiting the summons of his country to serve her in any capacity possible.
The _Almirante Oquendo_ and the _Colon_ were still fleeing for life, with the _Iowa, Oregon, Brooklyn_ and _Texas_ hard after them.
A few years after the close of our Revolution one of the most appalling uprisings in the history of the world took place in France.
Turning her frightful front toward the _Cumberland_, the _Merrimac_ swept down upon her in grim and awful majesty.
At half-past seven there was a lull.
Advantage was taken of the cessation to give the men breakfast, for it is a well accepted principle that sailors as well as soldiers fight best upon full stomachs.
It did only trifling damage to the rigging of the _Kearsarge_.
Some time later the captain's launch was stoned, for the Chilians hated the Americans as intensely as did the Spaniards.
Amid the terrible carnage the boy Farragut conducted himself with such coolness and bravery that he was specially complimented by Captain Porter in his report.
They were bosom friends from boyhood.
There was no telling to what part of the world she had fled, and Captain Winslow sailed to Calais, where he learned that the rebel _Rappahannock_ was awaiting a chance to put to sea.
It will be admitted that Stephen Decatur proved himself one of the most successful diplomats as well as intrepid and skilful of commanders.
_Velasco_--Small cruiser, built in 1881, iron, 1,139 tons, and three 6-inch Armstrongs in her main battery.
Immediately after a boat was sent out by the remaining rajahs, with a white flag fluttering at the bow.
From 1873 to 1876 Dewey was engaged in making surveys on the Pacific coast; he commanded the _Juniata_ on the Asiatic squadron in 1882-83, and the following year was made captain and placed in charge of the _Dolphin_, one of the original "white squadron." Next came service in Washington as Chief of the Bureau of Equipment and Recruiting, as member of the Lighthouse Board and president of the Board of Inspection and Survey (he being made commodore February 28, 1896), until 1897, when he was placed in command of the Asiatic squadron, much against his will.
The condition of the latter could not have been more desperate.
This was the more remarkable when several facts are kept in mind.
In January, 1864, he made a reconnaissance of Mobile Bay and informed the Government that if it would supply him with a slight additional force he would attack and capture it at once.
A man stood at the front with lead and line, quietly calling out in a guarded voice the soundings, which were repeated by a second man on deck, who forwarded the report aft to Walke, standing beside the pilot.
He managed to reach land, where he sank down so worn out that he lay motionless until daylight.
The _Vincennes_ prowled along the edge of the Antarctic Continent as far as 97 degrees east, when Lieutenant Wilkes headed northward and arrived at Sydney in March, 1840, and found the _Peacock_ at anchor.
Walking up to him, he placed his hand in a kindly manner on his shoulder and spoke encouragingly to him.
The naval forces were under the command of Admiral Farragut, while Commander Porter had charge of the mortar fleet.
[Illustration: GUNBOATS PASSING BEFORE VICKSBURG.] The latter surrendered to General Grant July 4, 1863, and the river was opened from its source to the Gulf.
The wooden vessels halted upon coming in view of the fort, and the ironclads, as they were called, moved slowly up stream abreast of one another, firing their bow guns in answer to the shots of the rebels.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN STEPHEN DECATUR.] Meanwhile, Captain Decatur had been doing characteristic work.
THE BOAT CLUB; or, The Bunkers of Rippleton.
The first halt was made off the island of Mocha, where a hunting party secured a number of hogs, which were salted down for future use.
At that moment, when it all seemed over, Captain Landais fired a broadside from the _Alliance_ into the _Bonhomme Richard_.
Captain Landais, without any show of reason, claimed that the command, by right of seniority of commission, belonged to him.
Five Union vessels were awaiting her in Hampton Roads.
Through the gloom seven boats, containing two hundred men, loomed into view, coming straight for the _General Armstrong_.
The treaty of peace between Great Britain and the United States was signed December 24, 1814, at the city of Ghent, in Belgium.
=Send for our Illustrated Catalogue of Books.
That remarkable frigate had already won such a reputation that the enemy were determined she should not get to sea again.
Fearing with good reason a treacherous attack from the batteries on shore, he spiked their guns.
George's tastes, however, were for the navy, and after much pleading with his father he brought him to his way of thinking.
He was given command of the 18-gun sloop of war _Wasp_, which sailed from the Delaware in October, 1812, and headed eastward, with the intention of intercepting some of the enemy's merchantmen plying between Great Britain and the West Indies.
Pistol in hand, the plotter tiptoed up beside the hammock to learn whether the boy was asleep.
Her policy was a selfish one, for she believed the United States was too weak to send any effective warships into that part of the world.
Maclay gives the strength of the two vessels as follows: _Wasp_, 18 guns, _Frolic_, 22; crew of the _Wasp_, 138, of the _Frolic_, 110.
The Dey of Algiers opened the ball by insisting that $27,000 should be paid him, the same being past due (under the old treaty providing for tribute from the United States), owing to the difference in the methods of computing time by the two countries.
He entered the American navy at an early age and in 1838 was made commander of the squadron which spent four years in sailing through the Pacific, along its American coasts and in the Antarctic regions.
They reached Manila the following August, and, under command of General Wesley Merritt and aided by the fleet, Manila surrendered, almost at the same hour that the representatives of Spain and our own officials in Washington signed the protocol that marked the cessation of war between the two countries.
One of the most formidable of these craft was the _Albemarle_, upon which work was begun early in 1863, at Edward's Ferry, several miles up the Roanoke River.
A good deal of uneasiness prevailed in the Union fleet regarding the rebel rams.
[Sidenote: _A postal to us will place it in your hands_] HURST & CO., _Publishers_, 395, 397, 399 Broadway, New York.
The strength of the force which marched against the fort was eighty-five men.
The tiller ropes of another boat were also cut about the same time, and she also floated helplessly with the current.
Two shots had entered the barge at her side, but not a man was hurt.
Learning then that other ships were expected, Porter determined to get to sea.
Undismayed by the awful tempest, Foote pushed steadily onward, cool, calm, hopeful and prepared for the worst.
They tied fast to the gangway and most of them climbed over the side with their daggers hidden in their clothing.
Jones was exceedingly anxious to attack her, and planned a night surprise, but again the violent wind interfered and he was forced to give up the scheme, so well suited to his daring nature.
He was on the poop attending to the signals and performed his duty, as might be expected, thoroughly.
The _Pomone_ had opened fire on the port bow, within musket shot, the other, about two cables' length astern, taking a raking position on our quarter, and the rest, with the exception of the _Endymion_, within gunshot.
His romantic nature was deeply stirred by the accounts of the naval exploits of his countrymen in the War of 1812, and he set his heart upon entering the navy.
A great many of my talks with old Admiral Stewart related to the war with Tripoli, which began in 1801 and lasted nearly four years.
He was able to withdraw it, and he then did the only thing that could possibly save his life, though the chances were that the act would hasten his death.
Endicott, and crew numbered fifteen men.
In paper | | || binding, 15c.
I came upon him one wintry day, when he was of that age, and found him in the barn, shoveling corn into a hopper, of which a sturdy Irishman was turning the crank.
The doughty pioneers would have none of it, and roughly handled the New York officers sent thither.
At the same time, several of his gunboats engaged those of the enemy.
As a consequence the prisoners surrendered, including General Tilghman and his staff, numbered less than a hundred.
He had been made rear admiral, and, though still weak, was by his own request assigned to the command of the North Atlantic squadron.
He then sailed for New Orleans, which he reached a few days after it had been occupied by General Jackson.
The _Cyane_ was properly a frigate, and she being at the rear, Stewart opened fire from the long guns of his port battery.
Leaping out of the boat, the American dashed forward, bounded over the walls and captured the sentinels before they knew their danger.
He was recalled by Admiral Farragut to aid him in the siege of Vicksburg.
"We have got to fight," said Captain Reid to his men; "they will attack us again to-night, and things will be lively." There was no thought of surrender on the part of the Americans, though, as will be noted, they were threatened by a force more than twenty times as numerous as their own.
Indeed, they think all the more of us for having done so.
POOR AND PROUD; or, The Fortunes of Katy Redburn.
The _Kearsarge_ picked up the men that remained and took them into Cherbourg.
Not until about a hundred feet distant and in the exact position desired did Captain Hull give the order to fire as the guns bore.
The name of this visitor was Raphael Semmes, afterward the commander of the _Alabama_.
Upon his recovery, he was appointed to duty in New York, but the war ended without his having another opportunity to distinguish himself in the service of his country.
That no reward might be lacking, the office of vice-admiral was specially created for him in December, 1864, and that of admiral in 1866.
Returning the fire, the Americans charged through the jungle and after another desperate fight it was captured, most of the garrison slain and the remainder sent scurrying through the woods.
Few words were spoken, and all in guarded undertones.
It was not long before Dewey had a furious scrimmage with another cadet, whom he soundly whipped.
"Blow us all up together!" was the instant response; "I shall never be taken prisoner." I may remark here that no writer has recorded this expression of the gallant Somers, and I give it because Admiral Stewart assured me of its truth.
Meanwhile the Americans, who had performed their part so well, came up and joined in the attack on the main fort.
Bombardment of Tripoli--Treacherous Act of a Turkish Captain--A Quick Retribution at the Hands of Captain Decatur.
The mangled remains of several bodies were found some days later and given burial on shore, but not one could be recognized.
The fever that it creates, together with the irritation caused by the insects, produces a thirst which is insatiable, to quench which we drink water at a temperature of eighty-two degrees.
Undeniably, they did better in such position than in handling their ships.
As stated by Maclay, the keel was laid in an open cornfield, and an ordinary blacksmith's outfit formed the plant for building; but the makers persevered and completed a craft 122 feet over all, with 45 feet beam and drawing 8 feet of water.
It was agreed, furthermore, that no more tribute should be paid, and thus ended all our troubles with Tripoli.
The favorite business of those barbarians was playing pirate.
The British officer was as anxious as Hull for a fight, and they drew near each other, both confident of winning the wager made half in jest a brief time before.
One good thing resulted from our flurry with France.
Work had hardly begun when the Confederate gunboats appeared on every hand.
Captain Winslow was determined that no question about neutral waters should be raised.
Just then, however, the _Alabama_ fired again, upon which Winslow answered with several shots, when the white flag was run up for the second time.
Nothing loath, Lieutenant Sterrett resumed the battle.
The reader of these pages has learned something of the great battles of New Orleans, Mobile Bay, Vicksburg and Port Hudson.
To add to the terror, rumors spread that the ferocious natives were gathering at the rear of the city to rush in and plunder and kill.
At the time of that exploit he was only forty-eight years old and the youngest man of his grade in the navy.
As usual, the chief attention was given to the flagship, which was struck again and again by the flying shot and shell.
we counted eight large islands.
Fearing he would get away, Jones ran in between him and the land.
He knew the Earl and Lady Selkirk well and personally liked them both.
They were within a biscuit's toss of each other, wrapped in dense smoke, lit up by the jets of flame which were continuous.
She soon began returning the fire, still advancing, and repeatedly drove the gunners from the water batteries, but they immediately returned and kept bravely at work.
Such is a truthful account of the incident as it occurred.
Investigations made afterward seemed to establish that Somers was attacked by three gunboats, and, finding escape impossible, it was he who ran along the deck, lighted lantern in hand, and deliberately blew up the _Intrepid_, destroying not only himself and companions, but many of the enemy.
It was by such prompt, vigorous and brave measures that the American navy compelled the respect not only of civilized but of barbarous peoples in all parts of the world.
Just as he anticipated, the Confederates opened upon the doomed steamer at daylight, firing from so many different points that the defenders were helpless.
President, I'll reinforce Fort Sumter." "You, Commodore!
The _Frolic_, as the enemy was named, was also damaged, but not so badly as the _Wasp_, but, unfortunately for the _Frolic_, the heavy sea and the twisting about of the hull threw her into position to be raked by the _Wasp_, and Captain Jones was quick to seize the advantage, the vessels being so close that the ramrods were pushed against each other's sides while the gunners were loading.
No one could know his weakness better than the Spanish Admiral.
Webster's Quarto Dictionary, Cloth, $1.25.
The highest honors that his country could give were freely bestowed upon him and no one will deny that he earned them all.
They were intended as an additional protection to his machinery, and the practice is common among warships.
Then the arms, ammunition and spars of the captive were thrown overboard and she was allowed to go.
Several were wounded, but none seriously.
In January, 1778, one of these privateers entered the harbor of New Providence, in the Bahamas, and captured the fort and a sixteen-gun man-of-war.
Even in the Mediterranean our navy had similar work to do.
While a few had no faith in the plan, others believed it would cause great destruction and spread dismay among the Tripolitans.
| | || | | _Holmes_ || Obtain our latest complete | | || catalogue.
An idea of the effectiveness of the privateers may be gained by the statement that during the year 1777 nearly 500 vessels were captured by them.
=_Palmer Cox's Brownie Book_= Illustrated by Palmer Cox Thousands who have paid $1.50 for Palmer Cox's Brownie Book never imagined it would be issued at a popular price.
Stewart and Decatur were of about the same age, and attended the old Academy in Philadelphia.
Swan, Acting Third Assistant Engineers Charles L.
When Stewart advanced to the attack he believed both his enemies were frigates.
Both were men in the prime of manhood, Lawrence in his thirty-second year and Broke in his thirty-seventh.
When the commander of the _Rappahannock_ saw the _Kearsarge_ once more off the port of Calais, he knew it was all up and dismantled his ship.
Upon the demand of Porter, her captain gave a list of all the vessels, so far as he could remember, that were cruising in the Pacific.
Another object he had in mind was to prevent the _Alabama_, in case she was crippled, from escaping by running into the harbor.
The resistance it met was so tough that it saved my shoulder from being shattered; except for that, the hurt must have proved serious, but it did not bother me at all." The Admiral, still loosely holding the weapon in his hand, turned his faded eyes toward the window and gazed out over the snow.
The Confederate cruisers advertised their regular days for departure, and they ran upon schedule time, even women and children taking passage upon the swift steamers with scarcely a fear that they would not be able to steam in and out of the river whenever the navigators of the craft chose to do so.
For a reply, the brig lowered the Spanish colors, ran up the British flag, and let fly with a broadside and volley of musketry.
A constant stream of wounded men were being hurried to the cockpit from all quarters of the ship.
He was buried with the highest civic and military honors at Trinidad, many British officers who had fought against him on Lake Erie showing their respect for his bravery and an appreciation of his kindness to them when they were prisoners of war.
Still another was Charles Stewart, born in Philadelphia in 1778, and, like those whom I have named, he entered the navy as lieutenant in 1798.
Now, if you will examine your map of Africa, you will notice a group of countries along the southern coast of the Mediterranean that are known as the Barbary States.
At the end of a few hours, however, he began creeping up again, and Captain Biddle tumbled overboard all his guns except one, most of his shot, his extra spars, cutlasses, muskets, forge and bell, and indeed everything of which he could free himself.
They looked upon the "dogs of Christians" as heathen nations, only fitted to be their slaves, and it must be admitted that it was quite natural they should hold the leading maritime nations of Europe as well as ourselves in contempt, for all deserved it.
As may be supposed, there was great excitement by that time.
To prevent the approach of a torpedo boat, the ram was surrounded by a boom of cypress logs, placed a considerable distance from the hull, and a double line of sentries was stationed along the river.
About four o'clock in the afternoon a rain squall, accompanied by a little wind, generally takes place.
Early in 1867 he was ordered home from the European station and assigned to duty at the Kittery Navy Yard, at Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
Winslow's instructions to his gunners were to fire slowly and to make every shot tell, and they did so.
No one could surpass him in seamanship.
He rendered his country other valuable service, but his health gave way, and, while in the East for medical attendance, he died in the City of New York at the age of fifty-three.
The gate was wrenched from its fastenings, but the first American who tried to enter was killed and three others badly wounded.
While in this perilous position he signalled for closer order.
"Oh," said the Admiral, who was then past ninety, "I've lived long enough; let it alone." He died a few months later, and, as has been stated, was in his ninety-second year.
The distance to be passed was fully eight miles, and the peril began almost from the moment of starting.
When the gallant Lawrence, mortally wounded on the _Chesapeake_, was dying, he called out in his delirium, "Don't give up the ship!" thus furnishing a motto that has served times without number for the American navy.
Sailors are superstitious, and the good name which the _Constitution_ gained made it easy to get all the seamen needed.
Now came the _Mississippi_, whose tragic fate is graphically told by Admiral Porter in his "Naval History of the Civil War": "The steamship _Mississippi_, Captain Melancthon Smith, followed in the wake of the _Monongahela_, firing whenever her guns could be brought to bear.
The French cruisers succeeded in capturing only one vessel from the American navy, while 84 armed French ships, mostly privateers, mounting more than 500 guns, were captured by our vessels.
One was my son, at present an instructor in the Academy, and the other was E.
It happened more than once that when our vessels refused to be searched the English fired into them and killed and wounded some of the American crews.
It will be seen, therefore, that the task assigned to Captain Perry required quick decision, courage and discretion.
While General Grant undertook the task of reducing Vicksburg, Captain Farragut assumed the herculean work of forcing his way up the Mississippi and capturing New Orleans, the greatest commercial city in the South.
He saw an American brig returning from the West Indies, heavily laden with supplies for Washington's army, which was badly in need of them.
Everybody instinctively felt that Admiral Dewey was the real hero of our war with Spain.
It continued a long time, and the _Peacock_ was within a few miles, when she made the discovery that the stranger, instead of being a merchantman, was a ship of the line.
Bold, daring and self-collected under the most trying circumstances--equal to any emergency--never unbalanced by an unexpected contingency, he possesses those great qualities always found in a successful commander.
The _Macedonian_ was made of oak and was without a superior in the British navy.
But at that very time the hastily completed _Monitor_ was speeding southward under the command of Lieutenant Worden, who had risen from a sick bed to assume the duty which no one else was willing to undertake.
Our vessels were manned by Americans, while the _Alabama_ was really an English ship, armed with English guns and manned and fought by an English crew: there's the truth in a nutshell.
Aside from the enemy, this was dangerous work, for there was no telling into what obstruction the boat would dash.
He gained fast, but to his dismay, when he was quite close, he discovered that instead of a merchant ship he had almost run into a twenty-eight gun frigate of the enemy.
Nothing being done for a time to check them, they grew rapidly in numbers and audacity, until, as has been stated, the West Indies swarmed with the pests.
[Illustration: BLOCKADE RUNNER--THE "MONITOR"--CAPTAIN ERICSSON.] Regular news of the building of the _Merrimac_ (called the _Virginia_ by the Confederates) was telegraphed to Washington by friends of the Government.
In amazing contrast to all this, we had only twenty large war vessels and a number of gunboats that were of little account.
Barclay, who had fought under Nelson at Trafalgar, and in another battle lost an arm.
Sometimes, by way of variety, they would throw their captives into dungeons and then notify the governments to which they belonged that they would be set free upon the payment of a large sum of money to their captors.
Captain Biddle addressed his men feelingly, telling them to show the same restraint in misfortune that they had in victory, and then the gallant officer coolly awaited the moment when he should be obliged to haul down his flag to save the lives of his brave crew.
Turning back to the earlier part of the war, mention must be made of another American hero, James Lawrence, who was born in Burlington, N.J., in 1781 and was active in the war with Tripoli.
Accordingly, he lost no time in getting to sea, leaving with the utmost haste and signalling to the _Cyane_ and _Levant_ to follow.
In 1855 Winslow was made a commander and was engaged in various duties until the breaking out of the Civil War.
A few minutes later the bow of one of the Spanish steamers came into sight from behind the Estrella Battery.
The majority of the officers, however, were American.
We all appeared cheerful, but I know that many a serious thought ran through my mind.
As all my readers no doubt know, the first successful steamboat in this country was the _Clermont_, made by Robert Fulton, which ascended the Hudson in the summer of 1807.
On February 14 he advanced resolutely to the attack with his two wooden gunboats and four partial ironclads.
The kings and nobility ground the people into the very dust until they were goaded into revolt, which overturned the throne and was marked by atrocities that shocked the world.
He told Signal Quartermaster Knowles to climb the rigging and secure Farragut to the shrouds.
This natural precaution was the foundation for Captain Semmes' charge that the _Kearsarge_ was partly armored.
Convinced that she was an enemy, Captain Carden at once issued the command to clear for action.
Congress voted $25,000 to the officers and crew of the _Wasp_ as prize money, and gave a gold medal to Master-Commandant Jones and a silver one to each of his officers, while the Legislature of Pennsylvania presented a sword to Lieutenant James Biddle.
At the breaking out of the War of 1812 he was given command of the frigate _United States_, of 44 guns, built in 1798, and one of the finest in the American navy.
[Illustration: COMMODORE EDWARD PREBLE.] Another hero was Commodore Edward Preble, born in 1761 and died in 1807.
Appointed to the superintendency of the Naval Academy in 1888, he held the situation for four years.
The vigilant _Gloucester_ joined the _Indiana_ and one of the destroyers displayed a flag of truce.
The strength of the _Hornet_ was 20 guns and 132 men; of the _Penguin_, 19 guns and 128 men.
It found its outlet through the scuppers and crimsoned the deep blue of the ocean.
He had his spyglass in one hand and kept raising it to his eyes.
Stewart turned his night glass toward the _Intrepid_ and watched her slowly fading from sight, until she melted into the gloom and not the slightest trace of her outlines was discernible.
FRENCH-ENGLISH " " " $1.00.
A piece of good fortune came to the _Bonhomme Richard_ while in this port.
HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.
The eldest of his sons was William D., who was born in New Orleans in 1809, but was educated in the North and was appointed to the navy when fourteen years old.
Fort Morgan, the only fort in the possession of the enemy, surrendered August 23, before an attack of the navy and the land forces under General Granger from New Orleans.
The play being over, he craved more serious business.
He was on the frigate _Potomac_, with the rank of master, when the war broke out, but was too young to secure a command during the war.
The total number of killed, wounded and missing was 48.
Captain Porter had become so clever in disguising his vessel as a merchantman that some days later he lured the British 16-gun ship-sloop _Alert_ to attack him.
Such a man was sure to be heard of again, as Great Britain learned to her cost.
As the defeated officers approached and presented their swords in turn, he told each to retain the weapon, accompanying the remark with words of compliment for the bravery he had displayed.
While waiting for the return of the flag of truce Captain Porter saw one of the shore batteries getting ready to fire upon him.
The all-important question was whether any one of the gunboats could run the terrific gauntlet of the batteries that lined the shore.
She is another nation to-day, but it was wholly her fault that her "children" on this side of the ocean were forced to strike for the defence of their rights in the Revolution and the War of 1812.
DEWEY IN THE WAR WITH SPAIN.
Matters had now assumed so serious a shape that a detachment of seventy officers and men landed at another point on the island and marched upon the nearest village, laying waste the crops as they advanced.
Sometimes she took Americans, because she knew they were good seamen, and, to excuse her action, she declared they were deserters from the British navy.
The elder Porter was appointed captain of the _Essex_ at the beginning of the War of 1812, and, leaving New York, started on a cruise after the British 36-gun _Thetis_, which was on her way to South America with a large amount of specie aboard.
A Hero of the Olden Days--Cruise of the _Constitution_--Her Capture of the _Cyane_ and _Levant_--Reminiscences of Admiral Stewart--His Last Days.
Well aware of the character of the foe he was about to encounter, he must have looked upon the meeting with foreboding.
Incredible as it may seem, there were a million people put to death during the awful days of the Reign of Terror.
But General Page, the Confederate commandant, knowing her errand, gave the order not to harm the boat, which was on its way to save drowning men.
Among the former, it need hardly be said, was young Midshipman Farragut.
Instead of joining them, Jones drew his pistol, and, standing alone in front of the crowd, kept them back until the fire burst out of the steerage and began running up the rigging.
In the space of eight minutes the _Alert_ was so helplessly crippled that her captain surrendered.
In order, therefore, to give as true an idea as possible of those times I shall devote this chapter to telling about some events which went the wrong way.
But she passed without doing them any injury, and at 5:30 o'clock blew up and went to the bottom." When the time came for the crew to save themselves as best they could, all sprang overboard and struck out for shore.
On the way to Nantes, in France, the _Ranger_ captured two prizes, refitted at Brest, and in April, 1778, sailed for the British coast.
Among his sailors was one who had been impressed into the British service, where he was brutally treated.
[Illustration: THE "HARTFORD"--FARRAGUT'S FLAGSHIP.] Meanwhile the ironclad _Manassas_ had been prowling at the heels of the Union squadron, but being discovered by the _Mississippi_, the steamer opened on her with so destructive a fire that the ram ran ashore and the crew scrambled over the bows and escaped.
They numbered about 8,000 and were under the command of General Mackall, from Beauregard's army.
The official records show that the _Olympia_ was ordered home, but Roosevelt, in a confidential dispatch of February 25, directed Commodore Dewey to remain, to prepare his squadron for offensive operations, and, as soon as war broke out with Spain, to steam to the Philippines and hit the enemy as hard as he knew how.
Silently the victors stepped over the prostrate forms to the quarter deck, where the officer weakly dropped his sword to signify his surrender.
In this famous battle the _Kearsarge_ had only 1 killed and 2 wounded, while Semmes lost 40 killed and 70 taken prisoners.
He saw it was useless to try to get the boat off.
It seems but a short time ago that the country was electrified by the news of the great battle, off Cherbourg, France, which sent to the bottom of the ocean the most destructive cruiser the Southern Confederacy ever launched.
Qualla Battoo is the name of a small Malay town, which stood on the northwestern coast of Sumatra.
His father was a gallant officer in the Revolution, and his two sons were among the bravest officers who ever trod the quarter deck.
The fact that a few men do escape being "skinned"--that is, punished for derelictions of duty--does not prove that they have not committed any indiscretions, but that they have escaped detection.
But when the news reached our Government Captain Porter was ordered home, tried by court martial and sentenced to be suspended from the service for six months.
They therefore set fire to the numerous and valuable shipping there.
As the American was returning, therefore, to resume her appalling work the English colors were hauled down.
"The ship was first set on fire in the forward storeroom, but three shots came through below her water-line and put out the flames.
[Illustration: THE "CONSTITUTION" AND THE "GUERRIERE."] Although the vessels had been lashed together, their lurching broke them apart, and the Englishman gained a chance to use his broadsides.
There, every man stopped and repressed the cheer that rose to his lips, for the scene was one of the most dreadful that imagination can picture.
He was the father of David Dixon Porter, who, on account of his brilliant record in the war for the Union, was made vice-admiral in 1866 and admiral in 1870.
The history of our navy is full of such strange occurrences.
The _Alabama_ was among friends.
Captain Jones had made so successful a cruise with the _Ranger_ that he felt, upon returning to Brest, in France, he was entitled to a better ship.
Commander Boggs turned her prow toward shore and crowded all steam, firing his guns as the water rose about the trucks.
But for the signing of the peace protocol, that visit under its gallant and distinguished commander would have proved one that the decrepit monarchy would remember to the end of time.
You will find listed in our catalogue books on every topic: Poetry, Fiction, Romance, Travel, Adventure, Humor, Science, History, Religion, Biography, Drama, etc., besides Dictionaries and Manuals, Bibles, Recitation and Hand Books, Sets, Octavos, Presentation Books and Juvenile and Nursery Literature in immense variety.
But while the Confederate was doing so, Boggs planted three 8-inch shells into his antagonist, which set her on fire and compelled her to drop out of action.
As a lieutenant he saw plenty of active service in the war with Mexico, and, at the beginning of the Civil War, was one of our most trusted officers.
_Hugh McCulloch_--Revenue cutter, light battery of rapid-fire guns.
The _Miami_ retreated, and the next day Plymouth surrendered to the Confederates.
The last was committed to the land forces, and it proved an exhausting and wearying struggle.
The night was cold and tempestuous, but the morning dawned keen and clear, and no time was lost in preparing the flotilla for the attack on the fort.
On Tuesday, Winslow appeared off the fort, and saw the cruiser within, with her Stars and Bars floating defiantly in the breeze.
Captain Jones ordered his prizes to steer southward and to pay no attention to the signals displayed on his own vessel.
The next day the Moorish captain returned with full powers to negotiate.
It was about ten o'clock when the _Carondelet_ swung round in the stream and started on its fearful race.
Some of the shots went clean through the battered hull and splashed into the water, hundreds of feet distant.
The _Endymion_ led the pursuers and soon drew up within range, her position such that Decatur could not reply to the shots which began to injure his ship and kill and wound his crew.
A minute later both ships discharged a broadside at the same moment, the gloom being lit up by spouts of crimson flame, while the thunder "shook the mighty deep" and the sulphurous smoke rolled slowly upward and drifted through the rigging.
This was done, and she was compelled to strike.
All my readers are familiar with the events that immediately followed, but perhaps they would like to know something concerning the naval heroes who did so much to contribute to the grand naval victory off Santiago.
But, before doing so, they had to catch him, and that proved a harder task than they suspected.
It was a proof of the fine discipline of the American crew that when they saw two of their comrades killed by the fire of the enemy, they silently waited without murmur for the order whose delay they could not comprehend.
[Illustration: BURNSIDE'S EXPEDITION CROSSING HATTERAS BAR (1862).] But it had cost dearly.
In the furious engagement that followed Captain Porter, with the _Essex_, succeeded in destroying the ironclad.
The casemate was 60 feet long, constructed of massive timbers, covered with 4-inch planking, over which were placed two layers of 2-inch iron.
He returned to his home, which was shadowed by the death of his bright boy at the age of fourteen years.
A party was engaged in a launch and cutter, when a tempest compelled them to run into a bay of the Fiji group for shelter.
During the early days of President Lincoln's administration, before the firing upon Fort Sumter by the Confederates, the all-absorbing question was as to whether or not the fort should be reinforced by the Government.
In the account of the naval exploits of the War of 1812, I have confined myself to those of the regular cruisers of the United States, but in no other war in which we were engaged did the privateers play so prominent a part.
Over 2,000,000 copies of this famous work have been sold, and yet the sale does not diminish.
If the Dey refused to come to terms, he intended to blockade the squadron and bombard the city.
Among the fully armed crew were twenty of the most expert sharpshooters in the army.
This was on September 23, 1779.
He was specially anxious to meet the _Florida_, and followed her from the coast of South America to that of England and France.
It seemed as if about every known nation in the world was represented and some of the men of the most desperate character.
A minute later the mizzen topmast was sundered, and, cluttered with sails, yards and rigging, it fell into the maintop, where it hung suspended, liable to fall at any moment and crush those beneath.
They were not only unaccustomed to the ship--though they knew of its reputation as an unlucky one--but were unacquainted with one another and nearly all were strangers to the officers.
When off Barnegat, New Jersey, he was sighted by the blockading squadron of Captain Philip Bowes Vere Broke, which gave chase.
He challenged Dewey to a duel, and Dewey instantly accepted the challenge.
The mate would have stopped them, but they pretended not to understand his words and acted as if interested in the appearance of the guns and rigging.
Philip and was pushing through the dense smoke when a fire-raft, with a tug pushing her along, plunged out of the gloom toward the _Hartford's_ port quarter.
Three hundred and twenty-two officers resigned from the United States navy and entered that of the seceding States, of which 243 were officers of the line.
[Illustration: ADMIRAL CERVERA.] It was the fear that the Spanish ships would make a dash on some dark, stormy night and escape that led to one of the most striking and brilliant exploits of the war.
In passing the batteries Porter had three of his vessels disabled and twenty-nine men killed and wounded.
Our situation was critical, but the weather favored us for a few hours.
Her rigging was in tatters and splinters and her hull had been pierced by more than a hundred shot, many of which struck between wind and water.
Now and then the zigzagging lightning gave a momentary glimpse of the craft moving away, but the straining eye and ear caught no sight or sound.
[Illustration: FIGHT BETWEEN "BONHOMME RICHARD" AND "SERAPIS."] Some of the shots from the _Serapis_ pierced the _Bonhomme Richard_ under the water line, causing her to leak badly.
The publishers, recognizing the importance of placing before the public a book that will suit all pocket-books and come within the reach of all, have issued several editions of Dictionaries in various styles and sizes, as follows: Peabody's Webster Dictionary, 20c.
Any of the above will be mailed, postpaid, at the prices named.
When only sixteen years old he joined a privateer, and at eighteen was active in the attacks of the _Protector_ on the British privateer _Admiral Duff_.
She was then set afire in four places aft, and when the flames were well under way, so as to make her destruction certain, Captain Smith and his first lieutenant (George Dewey) left the ship, all the officers and crew having been landed before.
It was less than three months before that the dying Lawrence had uttered the appeal, "Don't give up the ship!" and Perry hoisted a flag with the words displayed in large letters.
Just then the torpedo boat destroyers _Pluton_ and _Furor_ were discovered speeding also to the westward.
He was fond of fishing and of rough games, and as a fighter few of his years could stand in front of him.
By a splendid manoeuvre, Stewart defeated the purpose, and, placing himself abreast the rear ship, delivered another destructive broadside before the more sluggish enemy comprehended their danger.
Following Decatur's guarded orders, the men lay flat on the deck, all concealing themselves as best they could, while five or six, dressed as Maltese sailors, lounged about in plain sight.
The crossing was made and the enemy's batteries silenced.
Decatur was prepared for this question, and produced a letter to the Dey from the President of the United States, in which it was declared that the only conditions upon which peace could be made was the full and final relinquishment by Algiers of all claim to tribute in the future, and the guarantee that American commerce would not be molested.
Captain Jones was angered when he learned what had been done.
The _Monitor_ carried two 11-inch Dahlgren guns and fired solid shot.
The exasperating feature of this awful business was that neither Captain Carden nor his aids, who were directing operations from the quarter deck, could discover any corresponding damage on the American ship.
His father, although a native of Minorca, came to this country in 1776 and lost no time in joining the ragged, starving patriots in their struggle for independence.
He had been through trying and stormy times himself and would never submit to insult from any man or nation.
They would not yield while a drop of their savage blood warmed their bosoms or while they had strength to wield a weapon, fighting with that undaunted firmness which is the characteristic of bold and determined spirits and displaying such an utter carelessness of life as would have been honored in a better cause.
The sea was literally studded with these beautiful masses, some of pure white, others showing all shades of the opal, others emerald green and occasionally, here and there, some of deep black.
A boat was quickly lowered from the _Metacomet_ and sent to the relief of the survivors.
It was an illegal proceeding on his part, since the deck of a ship is the same as the soil of the country whose flag she flies.
One of the enemy's shot, however, raked the _Varuna_, killing four men and wounding nine.
Lieutenant Worden never fully recovered from the injuries received in his fight with the _Merrimac_.
Such submission was inevitable, for almost every man on board was either killed or wounded and every gun on the engaged side was disabled.
_Complete Catalogue of Books mailed upon application._ Hurst & Company, _Publishers,_ 395-399 Broadway, New York.
Maclay uses these impressive words: [Illustration: THE BATTLE BETWEEN THE "CHESAPEAKE" AND THE "SHANNON."] "The calm deliberation with which the American and English commanders went out to seek each other's life and the earnestness with which they urged their officers and men to steep their hands in the blood of their fellow beings form one of the sombre pictures of naval history.
The Englishman felt its full weight, and perhaps for the first time realized that this was no child's play." The Americans displayed remarkable skill in their gunnery, as it may be said they have always done.
Since the weather was perfectly clear and the two were in plain sight of each other, the enemy could keep up the chase all night.
Preble then told Lieutenant Decatur of the suggestion made by Bainbridge.
She was so poorly equipped that Jones complained, though he did not hesitate on that account.
When some of the refugees fled for safety to the _Yorktown_ and the Chilians demanded their surrender "Fighting Bob" replied that he would defend them until the _Yorktown_ went to the bottom.
She had the sympathies of the thousands, who hoped to see the Yankee ship sunk by the fearful commerce-destroyer.
This fact is proven by a remarkable occurrence, not often mentioned in history, the particulars of which are given in the next chapter.
It may seem that Decatur had an easy task before him, but Maclay shows that the force against which he sailed was really the stronger.
The Confederates increased their fire, and the other two boats, also greatly damaged, followed the flagship, and the ferocious fight that had lasted more than an hour was over, with the Union flotilla badly repulsed.
It was immediately sent back with orders for the Peruvian cruiser to come under the lee of the _Essex_.
The disadvantage was more than offset by the concentration of the Americans on the upper deck and in the rigging.
The manoeuvring of the American ships led the breathless swarms on shore to believe they were suffering defeat, and an exultant telegram to that effect was cabled to Madrid, nearly ten thousand miles away, where it caused a wild but short-lived rejoicing.
Fortunately the night was dark and the men rowed to land without being noticed.
The reader must remember that in those days matches were unknown and the task of relighting had to be done with the steel, flint and tinder.
If the government did not choose to pay the ransom, why their captors would give themselves the pleasure of putting the prisoners to death.
The task was an easy one, for there was no one to resist them.
England at that time was less friendly to the United States than she has since become, and she gave most unfair help to the Southern Confederacy by aiding to fit out and man cruisers for it.
If this scheme could not be carried out, he intended to blow her up with a torpedo as she lay at the dock.
Seeing the American approaching, and not knowing what fate had befallen her consort, the Englishman gallantly bore down to meet his formidable enemy.
The Greatest of Naval Heroes--David Glasgow Farragut.
The active Turk came again, and his second blow was only partly turned aside, the point of the pike tearing through Decatur's coat and inflicting a bad wound in his chest.
Her voyage to Hampton Roads was difficult and of the most trying nature to the officers and crew, who were nearly smothered by gas.
He was born in Philadelphia in 1783, and died in 1848.
Jones with his own hands hoisted the first flag displayed on an American man-of-war.
It proved to be the British 74-gun ship of the line _Poictiers_, which, surmising what had taken place, bore down, took possession of both ships and carried them to Bermuda.
The fleet fairly held its breath, as officers and men listened and peered down the river in the tempestuous darkness.
It was accomplished at the critical second, for the rifled gun, filled with 100 pounds of canister and pointed at the launch ten feet away, was immediately discharged.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN JOHN PAUL JONES.] It was far different with the privateers, which were vessels fitted out by private parties, under the authority of Congress, to cruise the seas wherever they chose and capture English vessels wherever they could.
The Indian confederacy was destroyed and all danger of the invasion of Ohio ended.
This was on the last day of February, and Captain Biddle was about to drop anchor when a sail appeared, and the _Hornet_ went out to reconnoitre.
With the construction of the new navy, Sampson commanded in turn two modern ships, the cruiser _San Francisco_ and the battleship _Iowa_.
THE WAR FOR THE UNION.
The Turk must have felt contempt for the American who dared thus to assail him, for his assailant was but a boy in size compared to him.
[THE END.] [Sidenote: Reasons why you should obtain a Catalogue of our Publications] 1.
The fire of the American became frightfully destructive.
So he declared war against the United States.
=HURST & CO., Publishers, 395-399 Broadway, New York.= _A Famous Series of Books now offered at a Third the Former Cost_ "Log Cabin to White House" Series A very famous series of books that are now undergoing a remarkable revival, owing to the fact that heretofore, the prices asked have been ridiculously high, and only the person of means could buy them; now they are published in identically the same style at less than half the former cost.
The squadron now crossed the Pacific, reaching Sydney, New South Wales, in the latter part of November.
Having succeeded so well, Porter again returned to the fleet for another capture.
Others dashed up a small creek, where they grounded, and those that were left ran ashore.
Perry showed every possible kindness to the suffering prisoners, who expressed their gratitude.
Wheeling, he launched his whole broadside at the fort, then delivered a second at the _Tennessee_ and headed for the gunboats _Selma_, _Gaines_ and _Morgan_, all of which were raking him.
It was a very tempting field for the brave and enterprising Americans and when, in March, 1776, Congress gave them permission to fit out and sail privateers, they were quick to use the chance of securing prize money as it was called.
If the shots of the _Monitor_ glanced harmlessly off of the _Merrimac_ those of the latter were equally ineffective against the _Monitor_.
It was contended further that the flagship would be the special target of the enemy, a fact that was likely to cripple her and prevent the employment of the all-important signals.
Imitating his enthusiasm, Lieutenant Biddle and his boarders took advantage of a favorable lurch at that moment and sprang upon the deck of the _Frolic_.
Stewart, with the _Siren_, by order of Preble, stood toward the northern passage, through which the ketch was to pass.
The approaching frigate went through a number of evolutions of such a rapid and brilliant nature that the Englishmen murmured their admiration.
It is a noteworthy fact that one of the greatest of English scientists, after demonstrating that ocean navigation by steam was impossible, was a passenger on the _Great Western_ on her first trip across the Atlantic.
All this time he was suffering so severely from the wound in his foot that it affected his spirits, usually buoyant and hopeful.
He and Decatur became fond of each other and often discussed the probable results of the impending naval contests, for it was apparent to both that their countries were on the brink of war.
The Barbary States took naturally to piracy, and Great Britain, by securing immunity for her vessels through the payment of tribute, also secured a virtual monopoly of the commerce of the Mediterranean.
The quartermaster at the wheel, obeying the directions of Decatur, steered so as to foul the _Philadelphia_, from which there suddenly came a hail.
In the event of success, he was to cooperate with Pope, and, when he moved, to assist in the attack on the fortifications.
Porter--The Career of Admiral David Dixon Porter.
He opened conversation with the captain of one of the vessels, who, unsuspicious of his identity, informed him that the fleet was carrying a thousand soldiers from Barbados to Quebec, and that the convoying vessel was the _Minerva_, a 32-gun frigate.
One of the vessels had been capsized in a squall, and the captain was occupying Winslow's room, and continued to share it until other arrangements could be made.
So Congress met, cancelled all treaties with France, formed an army, placed Washington, then an old man, at the head, formed a new navy and told the men-of-war to go out and give the insolent nation a lesson she very much needed.
He had drawn in his guns, hidden most of his men and done all he could to give the _Essex_ the appearance of being an inoffensive merchantman.
Fixing his attention upon a large vessel, he climbed quickly aboard and started a fire in her steerage.
NOW OR NEVER; or, The Adventures of Bobby Bright.
The latter was Mary, and the sons were Charles, Edward, and George, the last of whom became the famous Admiral of the American navy and the hero of the late war between our country and Spain.
A quantity of this was carried to the _Ranger_.
He hoisted his pennant and the flag bearing the immortal words of the gallant Lawrence.
The Movement Against Cuba--The Destruction of Cervera's Fleet--Admiral Sampson--Admiral Schley--"Fighting Bob" Evans--Commodore John C.
He shoved off the bulky form, which rolled over on its back, dead.
Since these natives needed a lesson, Lieutenant Wilkes landed a force and burned the native village.
The battle lasted three hours and a half.
A sail which was sighted displayed the Spanish colors, and, believing her to be one of the vessels that had been preying upon American commerce in the Pacific, Captain Porter hoisted the British flag.
The roar was tremendous and the water was flung hundreds of feet in the air.
Armor, 2-1/2 inches to 4 inches.
Their guns were cannon, loading at the muzzle and firing solid shot.
The officers and crews were enraged upon learning what had taken place, and, although it was night, they made sail at once for Qualla Battoo, reaching it next day.
Other minor demands were added, all of which were within the province of Decatur, who had been clothed with full authority to make peace.
From him Cushing learned that the _Albemarle_ had been destroyed and was at the bottom of the river.
The _Serapis_ and _Countess of Scarborough_ were refitted and given to France, while Captain Jones was placed in command of the _Alliance_.
The grand old _Constitution_ seemed to anticipate every wish of her commander and responded with a promptness that could not have been surpassed.
This prodigious navy was manned by one hundred and forty-four thousand sailors, and eighty-five of her war vessels were on the American coast, equipped and ready for action.
The three ships now closed in.
Captain Jones did not believe himself warranted in boarding, since he held the advantage of position, and he issued orders for the men to wait, but their ardor could not be checked.
In February, 1801, a treaty of peace was signed with France, which brought our troubles with her to an end.
=_Wee Macgreegor_= A Scottish Story by J.J.
He asked the Government for more men with which to man additional boats, but they were not furnished, and he went forward with such as he could get.
The boat was received with wild cheers by the expectant soldiers, who, while hoping for the best, feared the worst.
At this juncture the _Hartford_ arrived, charging full speed upon the ram, which so shifted its position that the blow was a glancing one.
The passage of these two ironclads sealed the fate of Island No.
The people of the Barbary States are only half civilized or barbarous, but they have always had a mighty high opinion of themselves, though it can hardly be as high to-day as it was a hundred years ago.
The _Bonhomme Richard_ had 42 guns and the _Serapis_ 50; the American crew numbered 304 and the English 320.
This exploit won for Cushing the commendation of the Navy Department for "his courage, coolness and gallantry." His restless spirit would not allow him to remain idle.
On one side was lashed a boat loaded with pressed hay, while a barge of coal was fastened on the side furthest from the dangerous batteries, and the escape steam was led into the paddle-wheel house in order to muffle the sound.
She was one of the most efficient ships in the British navy, carried 38 guns and had a crew of 330 men, all well disciplined and skilled in firing guns and in fighting, while Broke himself probably had no superior as an officer.
In referring to this exploit, the great English naval commander, Lord Nelson, said it was "the most bold and daring act of the age." CHAPTER IX.
" " " Full Sheep, $2.25.
It was to capture some prominent nobleman and hold him as a hostage for the better treatment of our countrymen.
" " " 1/2 Russia, $1.75.
The surrender was just in time to save the _Bonhomme Richard_, which was in danger of going down and blowing up.
"Hard aport!" commanded the captain, and the heavy craft barely missed the island, past which it shot at the highest speed.
The batteries on shore let fly at the ships, and the first reply was made by Captain Coghlan of the _Raleigh_.
He immediately beat to quarters.
The following extract from his journal will give a vivid idea of the discomforts which he and his men underwent in the performance of their work: "The sun, as soon as it shows itself in the morning, strikes almost through you.
Master Dewey was the ringleader of these young rebels, and chuckled with delight when the quiet-looking, ordinary-sized teacher sauntered down the highway to begin his duties in the schoolroom.
That officer ran into the berth deck and loudly shouted "_Fire_!" The finely disciplined crew promptly answered the call, and going to the main hatch, were speedily armed and received their orders from Captain Porter.
At that instant, however, the spare anchor of the _Serapis_ caught on the American's quarter and held the two vessels, as may be said, locked in each other's arms.
On the way down the bay some of the _Chesapeake's_ crew impudently notified Lawrence that they would not fight unless they received the prize money earned a short time before.
The commander studied the fleet through his glass, allowing it to come closer and closer and holding himself ready to flee, should it be necessary to do so.
He had with him three vessels: the flagship _Plantagenet_, 74 guns; the frigate _Rotan_, 38 guns, and the brig _Carnation_, 18 guns.
Naturally there was no little curiosity to learn the name of the stranger.
Goldsborough, after a furious fight, recaptured the vessel.
The bay was filled with skilfully placed torpedoes, some of them of stupendous size and power and sufficient, it would seem, if properly handled, to destroy all the navies of the world.
He was born in Connecticut in 1773, and died in 1843.
The call came in the spring of 1861, when he was about threescore years old.
The main fortification was Fort Morgan, whose heavy guns were placed in three tiers.
His companion vessel was sent in pursuit of a corsair, so that the _Philadelphia_ was left alone to perform blockade duty.
The forts waited twenty minutes when they replied, and the _Brooklyn_ responded with two 100-pounder Parrot rifles.
Although exposed to one of the most pestilential climates in the world, he did not lose a man.
Her original name was the _Duras_, but at Jones's request it was changed to the _Bonhomme Richard_.
His first wife, whom he married in Norfolk, became an invalid and did not live long.
No doubt the action of the Englishmen was unauthorized, and probably was due to a misunderstanding; but the Americans were so incensed that it was difficult to restrain them from continuing the firing.
The assailants displayed great bravery and made desperate efforts to board the privateer; but the Americans needed not the incentive of the warning that no quarter would be given to fight with all the vigor and skill at their command.
The _Brooklyn_, _Iowa_ and _Oregon_, some two and a half miles distant, crowded on all steam and headed for the harbor.
The splinters were seen to fly over the British frigate like a cloud, some of them reaching as high as the mizzen top, while the cheers of her men abruptly ceased and the shrieks and groans of the wounded were heard.
The rebels had huge bonfires burning on both shores, and as the _Pensacola_ came opposite the forts they opened their furious fire upon her.
David Glasgow Farragut was the greatest naval hero of modern times.
Determined to honor the _Lawrence_, Perry now had himself rowed to the wreck, drifting some distance away in charge of the few that had survived the awful conflict.
A religious book with a world-wide reputation, that has no equal anywhere.
The motive power was furnished by twin screws operated by engines of 200 horse-power each.
Nothing but the rippling of water made by the vessels broke the profound, expectant hush that rested upon both.
Then he hurried back to the first fort and found to his surprise that the fire had not been started.
This battle, one of the most fiercely contested of the war, naturally caused much rejoicing throughout the United States.
The Captain concluded the crew needed this additional help to work their way through the heavy surf.
The vessels continued firing as they drew near each other.
The British commander mustered his men to board the American, but they were driven back by the firing from the rigging of the _Bonhomme Richard_.
Maclay says: "In this brilliant cruise Captain Stewart proved himself an officer of rare ability.
Amid the wild confusion the flames of the second fort reached the magazine and the whole structure blew up with a tremendous explosion.
At Gibraltar Decatur saw several boats hurrying off to Algiers to warn his enemy of his danger.
He was promptly obeyed; and, resolved to take no chances, Sterrett then compelled him to cut away his masts, after which he was permitted to rig a jury mast and a single sail.
Knowing the enemy would soon return in overwhelming numbers, he asked for six volunteers to stay with him and fight with the single gun to the last.
She was wrapped in an immense volume of smoke made by her own broadsides, and through it constantly shot tongues of crimson flame, while the roar of the rapidly discharged guns was incessant.
The killed on each side was 49; the wounded on the _Bonhomme Richard_ was 116 and on the _Serapis_ 117, there being a difference of only one in the total of killed and wounded.
Captain Jones was a different kind of man.
Maclay says in his "History of the American Navy" that the muster roll of the _Bonhomme Richard_ showed that the men hailed from America, France, Italy, Ireland, Germany, Scotland, Sweden, Switzerland, England, Spain, India, Norway, Portugal, Fayal and Malasia, while there were seven Maltese and the knight of the ship's galley was from Africa.
The following summer was spent in exploring the islands of the Southern Archipelago.
Lieutenant Worden was kept a prisoner until the 13th of the following November, when, his health having broken down, he was exchanged and sent North.
The mate was absorbed in his work, when suddenly several Malays sprang with lightning-like quickness at him and buried their daggers in his back.
Hardly had the treaty with England been proclaimed when two squadrons were ordered into Algerian waters.
Soon after this splendid victory Admiral Farragut went North, where he was received with all possible honors.
He had discovered the approaching danger, and the startled sentinels challenged, but no reply was made.
He glided forward among the fleet and hailed the captain of a second vessel, but the latter became suspicious, and was on the point of signalling to the escort the appearance of a stranger among them, when Porter thrust out the muzzles of twenty cannon and warned him that if he failed to keep perfect silence and follow in his wake he would blow him out of the water.
Almost at the same time Great Britain issued her proclamation of neutrality, the terms of which compelled Dewey to leave the British port of Hong Kong within twenty-four hours.
The formidable craft _Governor Moore_ had detected her in the early morning light, and steaming after her, fired a shot when only a hundred yards away, but missed.
He applied to General Bragg in command of the Confederate forces in that neighborhood for permission to make a verbal communication from the Secretary of War to Captain Adams.
Under no circumstances would she allow her son to enter the navy.
At the close of the Revolution there had been twenty-four vessels lost, carrying 470 guns.
In reply the officer ordered him back to his station and with notice that if the request was repeated he would be shot.
Marks, | | || Rose Mather, | | || Tempest and Sunshine.
He knew the fort was powerfully fortified and the bay mined, and knowing all this, he remembered the exclamation of his immortal instructor in the science of war, the peerless Farragut, when he was driving his squadron into Mobile Bay.
His gallantry in the fight between the _Argus_ and _Pelican_ in the war with Great Britain sent a thrill of admiration through the country and brought him well-merited promotion.
Porter pronounced the exploit of Bailey the greatest engineering feat of the whole war.
The natives on the beach displayed so hostile a disposition that no landing was made, and, having gained the necessary information, the boat returned to the frigate.
The severity of this battle is shown by the fact that Foote's ship was struck 31 times, the _Essex_ 15, and the _Carondelet_ 6.
He was a close student of ordnance matters, gave special attention to torpedo work and was chief of the Bureau of Naval Ordnance from 1893 to 1897.
The run was a smooth one, and as the sun was sinking in the sky Commodore Dewey, peering through his glass, caught the faint outlines of Corregidor Island, and dimly beyond the flickering haze revealed the Spanish fleet in the calm bay.
"The ropes which held the floating battery to the bank have been burned and she is drifting down stream toward us." "Are her guns loaded and is there much ammunition aboard?" asked Porter of the Confederate commander.
In the latter part of June he ran the batteries of Vicksburg, but notified the Government that though he could go up and down the river as he chose and silence the batteries when he pleased, no substantial good would result unless a land force of ten or twelve thousand men attacked the town from the rear.
His duty was that of serving on the board appointed by Congress to retire superannuated officers from the active service.
The response from the starboard guns of the enemy was prompt, and for a time the cannonade was deafening.
It would seem, therefore, that all he had to do was to be alert, and it need not be said that he and his crew were vigilant at all times.
Some hours later, however, a gun was fired as a signal for every member of the ship's company to come aboard at once.
While Porter and his visitor were conversing an officer came forward with the information that the immense floating battery _Louisiana_, of four thousand tons burden and carrying sixteen heavy guns, had been set on fire, as Admiral Cervera did with his ships a generation later, when his escape was cut off from Santiago.
He became lieutenant in June, 1862, and flag lieutenant to Farragut in January, 1864.
This gallant young officer is entitled to more notice than has been given him.
As the enormous craft forged into sight it was seen that she was accompanied by three gunboats ready to give what help they could.
The answer was two musket shots, one aimed at the man at the wheel and the other at Biddle.
In command of the _Powhatan_ he covered the landing of the reinforcements for Fort Pickens just in time to save its capture by Confederates.
When the situation of the forts became hopeless his demand for their surrender was accepted and an officer came on board under a flag of truce to complete the negotiations.
Then again impenetrable gloom and profound stillness succeeded.
DEWEY IN THE WAR FOR THE UNION.
Hotchkiss, two Colts, one field gun and five torpedo tubes.
The English captain obeyed, and Porter extricated his prize with such astonishing skill that not a vessel took the alarm.
The _Texas_ was approaching when the Spanish ship was torn by a tremendous explosion.
Not only was it a glorious victory of itself, the occasion being the first time in England's history that she surrendered a whole squadron, but it settled a much more momentous matter.
They were accompanied by another midshipman named Israel, who begged so hard to be allowed to go that he could not be refused, and ten of the best seamen.
His second wife was also a native of Norfolk.
In the expedition against Franklin, Va., in the autumn of the year, he was placed in command of the gunboat _Ellis_, and showed such skill and bravery that he was recommended by the acting admiral to the Navy Department.
Lieutenant Biddle walked to where the colors were still fluttering and pulled them down.
Headley, the biographer of Cushing, in an article written immediately after the close of the Civil War, used these words: "Still a young man, he has a bright future before him, and if he lives will doubtless reach the highest rank in the navy.
He entered Columbia College, Washington, when only eleven years old, but left it in 1824 to accompany his father on his cruise in the West Indies to break up piracy in those waters.
He was of small figure, always wore an old-fashioned blue swallow-tail with brass buttons, took snuff, and would laugh and shake until his weatherbeaten face was purple over some of his reminiscences of the early days of the Republic.
He was wounded twice in the body and shot through both legs.
All the time, under a full head of steam, Winslow was rushing toward his enemy for the death grapple.
Then Captain Porter landed, and, after spiking another battery, made his way to the town.
Winslow ran across her bow and was on the point of raking her, when the _Alabama's_ flag came down.
He came out a few hours later, accompanied by the Algerian captain of the port.
He picked out what looked like a large merchant ship and gave chase.
Oliver Optic has the faculty of writing books full of dash and energy, such as healthy boys want and need, yet free from any objectionable dime-novel sensationalism.
Captain Percival Drayton had been closely watching the Admiral and now became alarmed, lest some damage to the ropes should cause him to fall overboard.
This helped matters somewhat, but the stranger continued slowly to gain, and secured such a position that Captain Biddle was obliged to go about.
A Hero of the Olden Days--Cruise of the _Constitution_--Her Capture of the _Cyane_ and _Levant_--Reminiscences of Admiral Stewart--His Last Days.
Dewey wished to give George a career in the army, and he sent him to Norwich University, a military training school, in order to fit him for the Military Academy at West Point.
There the Rajah of Qualla Battoo, who was the real author of the attack on the _Friendship_, had gathered a large force of his best warriors and announced that he would fight to the death.
He knew that the defences were being strengthened every day and repeatedly urged that he be furnished with the means of making an immediate assault.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant R.
The explosion of the American's lower guns at the opening of the battle had made her helpless against the corresponding battery of the enemy, which pounded away until a huge, yawning gap was opened.
On the afternoon of August 19, when several hundred miles to the eastward of Halifax, he sighted the British frigate _Guerriere_.
In a letter to his son, Admiral Farragut wrote: "I am almost as fond of Watson as I am of your own dear self." In his report of the battle of Mobile Bay, where Watson was wounded, Farragut wrote: "Lieutenant Watson has been brought to your attention in former times.
The enormous size and gorgeous uniform of the Turkish captain made him so conspicuous that Decatur knew him at once, and, rushing forward, lunged at him with his boarding pike.
When they reached their position they came upon three heavily armed schooners, swarming with warriors, awaiting a chance to take part in the fight.
Our daring explorers are continually edging further north, and doubtless within a few years the Pole will be reached, but there appears no prospect of the South Pole being seen for many a year to come.
His mother opposed, but, when she saw it was useless, wisely yielded.
When only a few feet from the _Albemarle_, Lieutenant Flusser, standing directly behind a gun of the _Miami_, let fly with a heavy shell, which, striking the armor of the _Albemarle_, was shivered into a thousand fragments, most of which rebounding, instantly killed the officer and wounded a dozen men.
The commissioners had a heavy, single-decked frigate built in Holland, which was named the _South Carolinian_ and was intended for Paul Jones, but some difficulties occurred and he was sent to sea in the 18-gun ship _Ranger_, which left Portsmouth, N.H., at the beginning of November.
A hurried examination showed that the _Philadelphia_ was inextricably fast, and could not be freed until the tide rose.
One of England's best selling books to-day, where it is "all the rage." Thousands have been sold here at high prices, but with our facilities for cheap manufacturing, we can supply a dainty edition, bound in cloth, at 35 cents, postpaid.
It took an hour to transfer and secure the prisoners, when the _Constitution_ started after the other ship, which was some distance away, engaged in repairing her rigging.
His most famous exploit was the rescue of the Greely Arctic expedition.
When Lawrence formed his men to board after the two vessels had fouled the bugler could not be found, whereupon Captain Broke led his own men upon the deck of the _Chesapeake_.
Five men rushed to the help of the mate, but they were unarmed and outnumbered four to one.
The plan suggested by Bainbridge was a good one, for, since it was impossible to add the _Philadelphia_ to our navy, the next best thing was to prevent her remaining with that of Tripoli.
In his impatience, he decided to give us a lesson as badly needed as it was in the case of France, to which I have alluded.
[Illustration: THE BATTLE BETWEEN THE "MERRIMAC" AND "MONITOR."] When the _Merrimac_ steamed back the _Monitor_ moved out from her position and boldly advanced to meet her.
_Peacock_ them!" Broke a short time before had committed his wife to God's mercy and soon afterward was urging his crew to 'Kill the men!
Had it occurred near the vessels, it would have destroyed every one of them." [Illustration: GUN AND MORTAR BOATS ON THE MISSISSIPPI.] After the fall of New Orleans Porter was sent to Ship Island to await the attack that was in contemplation upon New Orleans.
This sloop of war had a crew of 163 men, carried two 11-inch pivot guns, four short 32-pounders and one rifled 30-pounder, the total shot weight of the seven guns being 430 pounds.
It was swarming with armed natives, who kept up a vicious but ill directed fire, the result of which was the sailors rowed the faster, eager to get close enough to punish the miscreants for their murderous work.
Great interest attaches to this naval battle, for it was the first of its kind and a fair test of the respective prowess of ships of and crews of that nature.
Captain Lewis Warrington succeeded Porter in the West Indies and followed out his aggressive policy.
Sir:--I hear that you were informed by the United States Consul that the _Kearsarge_ was to come to this port solely for the prisoners landed by me, and that she was to depart in twenty-four hours.
He said in his official report that he saw the shot strike the boat, whereupon Perry took off his coat and plugged the hole with it.
It being broad daylight, his men expected him to jump into the boat and order them to return with all haste to the ship; but, instead of doing so, he darted into one of the nearest houses, procured some tinder and candles and began himself the work of destruction.
No sooner had the War of 1812 closed than our Government decided to give its attention to Algiers, whose defiant Dey had not only refused to allow his American prisoners to be ransomed, but had insolently declared that he meant to add a good many more to them.
The English crews broke into cheers, believing the battle won, but they could not take possession of the _Lawrence_, which drifted out of range.
Meanwhile the _Vizcaya_ ran up the white flag and the _Texas_ stopped firing.
There is a great deal of land in the north, while the unbroken ocean seas stretch away from the South Pole for hundreds and thousands of miles in every direction and the prodigious masses and mountains of ice make it impossible to get anywhere near it.
The trouble was not with the soldiers.
This was a sort of reception they had not counted upon, and the boats turned about and hastily rowed back to the flagship.
But the strongest fort of all stood on the bank of the river near the beach.
Accordingly they turned to one side and swam several miles to a promontory, where they were safe for the time.
He began life as a sailor at the age of fifteen, and was in several engagements before he was appointed to the navy in 1798, during our war with France.
No sooner was the young lieutenant acquainted with the plan than he volunteered to lead in the perilous enterprise.
[Illustration: THE OFFICERS OF THE "CHESAPEAKE" OFFERING THEIR SWORDS.] In the wild, savage fighting, where everything was so mixed that an American lieutenant joined the British boarders under the impression that they were his own men, Captain Broke was fearfully wounded, though he afterward recovered.
It must be remembered that Jones was cruising near his birthplace and when a sailor boy had become familiar with the Scottish and the English coasts.
With the same marvelous coolness he had displayed from the first he took off his coat and shoes, flung his sword and revolver aside and shouted: "Every man save himself!" Then he leaped into the water and began swimming with might and main down stream, the bullets skipping all about him, but he soon passed beyond sight and was still swimming when he heard a plashing near him.
Then something was accomplished in which we all could feel pride.
There being no harbor, the vessel was about half a mile from shore.
It looked as if the attempt must result in the inevitable destruction of any craft before half the distance could be accomplished.
A merchant brig and a cutter were also added to the squadron.
The men living along the coast found buccaneering so profitable that they gave up their peaceful pursuits and became free-booters of the sea.
It is proof of the worth of the man that he was assigned as navigator of the flagship _Hartford_, commanded by the lion-hearted Farragut.
The next call of the American commander was on the Bashaw of Tripoli, who, although he blustered a good deal, was compelled to hand over $25,000 for a similar breach of the law.
He was a lieutenant on the _Philadelphia_ for two years, and was with that frigate when she ran on the rocks in the harbor of Tripoli.
Perry, a younger brother of the Lake Erie hero, and given the choice of vessels belonging to the fleet.
Worse than all, many were in a maudlin state of drunkenness when the _Chesapeake_ started out with flags flying to engage the well-manned _Shannon_.
Dewey could do was to secure the appointment of his son as alternate, who, as may be understood, secures the appointment only in the event of the principal failing to pass the entrance examination.
Many were killed and others sent scurrying in terror to the jungle.
The natives fled, leaving the village to be burned to ashes.
He then fired upon the boats, and a number of the crews were killed and wounded.
The Americans left their guns and broke into cheers, whereupon the Tripolitan fired a broadside.
We meekly bowed our heads, paid it, and tried to be more prompt afterward.
As was the custom, he was ordered to a cruise before his final examination.
His forces were strewn along for miles, with no thought of danger, when at Sabine Cross Roads they were furiously attacked by General Dick Taylor and routed as utterly as was the first advance upon Manassas in July, 1861.
But the first battle between the two proved the last.
He therefore made sail to get to close quarters.
His object was to learn whether the escort was too powerful to be attacked.
The stranger approached and sent an armed boat to the _Essex_.
In a twinkling the howitzer was unlimbered, and the charge of grape which was poured into the approaching horsemen was supplemented by a volley of musketry.
On the night preceding the attack on Fort Henry the little fleet anchored abreast of the army under General Grant, which was encamped on the bank.
The vessels moved to and fro about the entrance, as if the inanimate things shared in the anxiety that would not allow them to remain still.
Meanwhile, it should be added, that the rank of full Admiral of the navy, hitherto borne only by David Glasgow Farragut and David Dixon Porter, was revived and bestowed, in February, 1899, upon George Dewey, and of the three none has worn the exalted honor more worthily than the Green Mountain Boy, who has proven himself the born gentleman and fighter, the thorough patriot and statesman and the Chevalier Bayard of the American navy.
He went to New York to complete his preparations, but while there succumbed to his illness, and died at the Astor House, June 26, 1863.
A few weeks ago I had as guests at my house two young men who were graduates of the West Point Military Academy in 1889.
The battle of Manila, one of the most remarkable in naval annals, was won and Commodore Dewey took rank among the greatest of all the heroes of the sea.
The river was sealed from Vicksburg to the Gulf of Mexico.
In reply to the demand that the _Friendship_ should be returned, the insolent Rajah told them to take her if they could.
His business was to look out for French merchantmen and warships, though as it was known that war had been declared with the United States, it was deemed probable that Captain Carden would have a chance of testing the mettle of her naval officers and crews.
It would seem that there was nothing in the course of the gallant naval officer that deserved censure.
The fine frigate _Philadelphia_ captured a Moorish cruiser upon which were found papers signed by the Governor of Tangier authorizing the commander to destroy American commerce.
It was while the attack was being pressed in this vigorous fashion that a shell pierced the boiler of the _Essex_, commanded by Lieutenant Porter, and caused so many deaths, as has been related in a preceding chapter.
The position of the wreck as a consequence was diagonal and left the passage partly open.
Winslow heard of this, and, without waiting for some of his men and officers who were on shore, he moved out of the harbor.
The explanation was reasonable, and without any excitement, Commander Porter renewed the conversation respecting the surrender, but a few minutes later the officer again approached.
And France got the lesson.
Lawrence_, all of which immediately cleared for action.
Within a few yards of the wreck a schooner was anchored containing a guard of twenty men with a field piece and rocket, provided for precisely such danger as now drew near.
Captain Barclay now made an attempt to change his line of battle with a view of bringing his other broadsides into action.
"I supposed that when a king makes a present of a sword," I said, "that the hilt is generally of a more costly pattern than that." "So it is," replied Stewart, accepting it from me and playfully making a few lightning-like passes in the air just to show that he had not forgotten how to handle the weapon; "that was a very handsome sword when it came to me, and I could not accept it until authorized by Congress.
Then the old veteran, still erect and with the fires of patriotism glowing in his brave heart, softly murmured: "I have been more fortunate than I deserve; strange that I should be the only one left, but it cannot be for long." And yet he lived for seven more years.
That being done, Vermont again asserted her independence, compelled New York to recognize it in 1789, and she was admitted to the Union in 1791.
The combined efforts of the sturdy rowers could not check the progress of the boat, which perhaps would have been the right course to take but for an alarming discovery.
Instantly, he sent a detachment, which captured the battery and spiked the guns.
We have had too much _talk_; it's time for actions, and I demand that you give me a chance with the rest." With that inimitable tact for which President Lincoln was noted, he succeeded in soothing the ruffled feelings of the Commodore (soon afterward made an admiral), but the old gentleman was not quite satisfied, when he bade the President good-by, without having obtained the opportunity to re-enter the active service of his country.
[Illustration: THE "SAN JACINTO" STOPPING THE "TRENT."] The scientific expedition of which Lieutenant Wilkes was given command was intended, to quote the words of Congress, "for the purpose of exploring and surveying the southern ocean, as well to determine the existence of all doubtful islands and shoals as to discover and accurately fix the position of those which lie in or near the track of our vessels in that quarter and may have escaped the observation of scientific navigators." Lieutenant Wilkes sailed from Hampton Roads on the 19th of August, 1838, his flagship being the 18-gun sloop-of-war _Vincennes_, the 18-gun sloop-of-war _Peacock_, the 12-gun brig-of-war _Porpoise_, the storeship _Relief_, the tender _Sea Gull_ and the tender _Flying Fish_.
The exterior batteries were also heavily armed and the garrison numbered 640 men.
The first fire severely wounded Lawrence in the leg, but he refused to go below.
Armor, protected deck, 2 inches to 4-3/4 inches.
Among the frigates that had been built during our war with France was the _Constitution_, which carried 44 guns.
As fast as the gun could be loaded, it was pointed here, there and everywhere, for, no matter in what direction it was aimed, it was pretty sure to hit some of the enemy; but a single gun against a score could accomplish nothing, and the lieutenant had to decide whether to remain, with the certainty of every man being shot to pieces, of surrendering, or of rowing in an open boat for more than a mile through the murderous fire.
At the time of the gentleman's appearance George was sitting astride of a big limb in a tree at the side of the road, his pockets bulging with stones, which he was hurling with unpleasant accuracy at every one who came within range.
Dacres, was an old acquaintance of Hull, and the two had made a wager of a hat during peace that if they ever met in battle the other would run.
She earned the name of being one of the luckiest ships in the navy, and because of her astonishing record was named "Old Ironsides." The old hulk of this historical ship is still carefully preserved in remembrance of her brilliant record, which in some respects has never been equalled.
He was cool and daring and was animated by the highest patriotism for his adopted country.
The boy was on the _Essex_ when, disabled and helpless, she was pounded into a surrender by two British ships while in the harbor of Valparaiso, in January, 1814.
"I suppose the guns are loaded, but I know nothing about naval matters here," was the reply.
The American instantly seized the advantage and swept the decks with murderous destructiveness.
The soot had caught fire and the reflection was thrown far out on the water.
The _Serapis_, commanded by Captain Pearson, knew that he was confronted by the redoubtable Paul Jones, and he welcomed a fight with him, for the British captain was one of the bravest of men.
The roll call revealed that two Americans had been killed and eleven wounded.
Pangborn saw how things were going he shouted to Dewey to stop his sport.
The batteries on shore were awed into silence by the awful sight, and the waiting friends on the ships held their breath.
One division turned to the left to attack the fort at the northern end of the town.
He sailed from Hampton Roads on the 3d of February, 1862, in the flagship _Hartford_ and arrived seventeen days later at Ship Island, the place of rendezvous.
The Stars and Stripes used in that war was slightly different in pattern from the present, for, instead of containing thirteen stripes, as it did at the close of the Revolution and as it does to-day, it had fifteen.
As he drew near the guards fired a volley which riddled Cushing's coat and tore off the sole of his shoe.
The night was clear and starlit, and at nine o'clock the ketch was in full view of the city and its twinkling lights, with the dark shores crowded with batteries, while far ahead, under the guns of the Bashaw's castle, lay the _Philadelphia_.
They carefully concealed their weapons and the Americans on the vessel made the same mistake as their captain in believing they were merely the additions necessary to help work the craft through the surf.
The flagship leading had the advantage of pushing often ahead of her own smoke; but those who followed ran into it and incurred a perplexity which increased from van to rear.
He was stretched on the ground, dreadfully wounded and with so many dead men piled upon him that he barely escaped suffocation.
Then, by transferring the American crew to her, the worthless _President_ could be abandoned and swift flight be made in the _Endymion_, which had already demonstrated her superior speed.
He became a lieutenant in July, 1862, and served with that rank on the practice ship _John Adams_ at the Naval Academy and on the ironclad _Patapsco_.
A Man Devoid of Fear--William Barker Cushing--Some of His Exploits--The Blowing Up of the _Albemarle_--His Sad Death.
In a work of this nature the difficulty is to select the most striking and interesting incidents from the scores that formed a part of the War for the Union.
[Illustration: IMPRESSING AMERICAN SAILORS.] This action was against the law of nations.
He was made lieutenant in 1833.
There he set to work to make his arrangements for the great task which was wholly different from any that had ever engaged his attention.
The small arms were thrown overboard, and all possible damage was done to the engine and everything else that might prove of use to the enemy.
The American sailors begged permission of Captain Biddle to board, but he would not consent, since he wished to hold the advantage already gained.
Foote was greatly disappointed, and, absolutely certain of capturing the city, telegraphed for permission to do so, but it was refused.
The damage done by the other shells was insignificant.
The escape of the gallant little ship could not have been narrower, and she suffered great damage, but finally the dreaded extremity of South America was weathered, and in the beginning of March, 1813, the _Essex_ sailed into the calmer water of the Pacific, where no armed American vessel had ever before penetrated.
Our own squadrons were engaged for weeks in hunting for it, and it was reported in a dozen different places.
Reaching over the back of the Turk, he pointed the weapon downward toward his own breast and pulled the trigger.
Sampson was commissioned as lieutenant commander in 1866, was at the Naval Academy from 1868 to 1871, cruised for two years in European waters and first commanded the _Alert_ in 1874.
Steam navigation had been fully established some years before.
No such victory between ironclads has thus far taken place in the history of the world.
As it approached it was carefully scrutinized and found to be a frigate bearing down on the _Macedonian_.
Then the Americans scrambled back to the ketch, Lieutenant Decatur being the last to leave the doomed frigate, from which the dazzling glare lit up the harbor and revealed the smaller boat straining to get away.
He became an attentive, obedient pupil, and years after, when grown to manhood, he warmly thanked Mr.
He untied the fastenings, and, climbing to the futtock shrouds, passed the rope once more around his body several times and tied the end to the rigging.
Howarth, Acting Master's Mates Thomas S.
The careening of the ram deviated the aim just enough to prevent the crew from being blown to fragments, but confident that not a man could escape, the Confederates twice called upon their assailants to surrender, and several did so, but Cushing was not among them.
The pilot just succeeded in scrambling out, when the _Tecumseh_ went down, taking her heroic captain with her.
Of the Spaniards, the dead and wounded numbered nearly a thousand, while not a single life had been lost by the American squadron.
This was impressively shown by the fact that although the _Kearsarge_ fired only 173 shots during the fight, nearly every one struck the _Alabama_, which fired 370, of which only 28 landed.
At length night approaches and we go close inshore and anchor.
Captain Jones had in mind the many outrages committed by British vessels along our seacoast, for, describing his purpose in a memorial to Congress, he said his intention was, by one good fire in England of British shipping, "to put an end to all burnings in America." CHAPTER V.
He was discharged from both the French and American navy.
He is a scion worthy of the noble stock he springs from, and I commend him to your attention." A squadron of invincible power was made up for Watson in the summer of 1898, with which it was intended Commodore Watson should pay a hostile visit to the coast of Spain.
"Not three minutes," replied Decatur; "if the remaining ships of your squadron appear before the treaty is signed, or before every American prisoner is on board this ship, I will capture every one of them." [Illustration: CAPTAIN BAINBRIDGE AND THE DEY OF ALGIERS.] The Moor was thoroughly cowed by the aggressive American, and, promising to do all he could to secure the consent of the Dey, he was hastily rowed ashore.
As the tall, sad-faced man rose from his chair he towered fully two feet above the diminutive form of the naval officer in his blue swallow-tail, who took the proffered hand, and, after a few conventional words, looked up and said in his brisk manner: "Mr.
Amid the crash and roar of the ponderous guns sounded the shrieks and cries of mortal agony from the Spanish crews, victims to the matchless gunnery of the Americans.
The perfect discipline of the crew enabled them to extinguish the fire before it could do much damage, and the _Hartford_ succeeded in backing into deep water and kept pounding Fort St.
He acquitted himself gallantly in more than one fight with the Spanish cruisers.
Andrew Hull Foote was born in New Haven, Conn., September 12, 1806.
Just then the heaving sea broke the vessels apart, the _Penguin_ receiving considerable damage from the forcible rupture.
When, two years later, Captain Porter entered the Mexican navy he appointed his son a midshipman.
They left all of our principal ports, many of the swiftest and most effective going from Baltimore, but twenty-six were fitted out in New York alone in the summer of 1812.
The beacon lights had been removed and early in the evening the pilot ran the ship aground just before reaching Sandy Hook.
Feeling their position impregnable, the savages flourished their weapons and uttered tantalizing whoops at the white men.
Captain Foote was busy fitting out a flotilla at St.
She was kept afloat through the night, while the wounded and prisoners were transferred to the _Serapis_.
About a hundred exchanged American prisoners volunteered and did a great deal to improve the discipline and strengthen the crew of Jones's ship.
Jones was making for Boston when he was discovered by the frigate that he had outwitted two months before, when the _Providence_ narrowly escaped capture.
General Grant was pressing his final campaign against Richmond, and the _Albemarle_ threatened to interfere with his plans, for if she made the diversion of which she was capable, she was likely to postpone indefinitely the wind up of the war.
We had a good many hardy, skilled seamen, who formed the best material from which to man a navy, and before long Congress undertook the work of building one.
The holes in the bottom were plugged, and the guns and anchors that had been thrown overboard in the shallow water were easily recovered and replaced on the ship.
All that Biddle could now hope to do was to out-sail his pursuer.
Even the swarthy natives seemed to languish in the flaming heat and displayed less vigor in bringing out the pepper in their boats than they did when the sun beat down upon them with its usual rigor.
The latter had had the time to practice to acquire the exact range, while the boats had yet to find it.
At two o'clock in the morning the signal was hoisted on the _Hartford_, Captain Farragut's flagship, and the fleet started in single line to run the fearful gauntlet.
The enemy were disposed to follow him thither, but he and his men took refuge in an old stone fortress and dared the Englishmen to do so.
The great battle was opened.
When everything was in readiness the fleet moved cautiously up stream, on April 18, and a bombardment of Forts St.
Thus the _Essex_ was saved by the wits of a boy only eleven years old.
After the war he was sent into southern waters to help suppress piracy, which had become very troublesome.
By this time the fearful spring afternoon was drawing to a close and the _Merrimac_ labored heavily back to Sewall's Point, intending to return on the morrow and continue her work of destruction.
Pangborn, the well known editor of New Jersey, who took charge of the Montpelier school, in which George Dewey was a pupil.
Perhaps my young readers have wondered over the same fact that used to puzzle me when a boy.
It would have been folly to fight them.
When a safe point was reached, Porter found that his prize was a brig with about two hundred British soldiers on board.
The monster received broadside after broadside and was repeatedly rammed, but suffered no material damage, while she killed 4, wounded 25 and caused the scalding of 13, through piercing the boiler of one of her assailants.
In a brief time the _Macedonian_ was completely disabled.
If you successfully perform this duty assigned to you, which you so willingly undertake, it will reflect the highest credit upon you and all belonging to your vessel, and I doubt not but that the government will fully appreciate and reward you for a service which, I trust, will enable the army to cross the river and make a successful attack in the rear, while we storm the batteries in front of this stronghold of the rebels.
In this case the principal would have passed without trouble, and, to quote an ordinary expression, George Dewey would have been "left," had not the mother of the other boy interposed at the critical moment.
In one of the hammocks was sleeping a midshipmite only eleven years old, but, young as he was, he was a hero.
"Now, gentlemen," said he, "there's no need of your growing warm over this affair; no matter what evolutions you made, or what you did, the end would have been the same.
"Leave the ram!" he shouted.
Captains Carden and Decatur--Cruise of the _Macedonian_--Battle with the Frigate _United States_--Decatur's Chivalry.
On the _Guerriere_ 3 had fallen and 11 were wounded by the fire of the enemy.
A little way from the blazing steamer a poor sailor was struggling hard to save himself, but one arm was palsied from a wound, and he must have drowned but for Dewey, who swam powerfully to him, helped him to a floating piece of wreckage and towed him safely to land.
The admiral's flagship was descried, and, still striving to avert suspicion, the American ships worked gradually toward him.
Thus the victory became complete.
At the age of sixteen he entered the navy, and saw a good deal of dangerous service in the extirpation of the West Indian pirates.
Contrast with this the loss of Great Britain, which was 102 war vessels, carrying in all 2,624 guns.
She swerved to elude this peril and ran aground close to St.
Among the blockading vessels of the enemy outside of Boston was the _Shannon_, commanded by Captain Philip Bowes Vere Broke.
The capture of that last Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi was a severe and tedious task, but General Grant, with that bulldog tenacity for which he was famous, held on until the 4th of July, 1863, when General Pemberton, the Confederate commander, surrendered his whole garrison of more than 20,000 men.
"Captain Smith gave orders to spike the port battery and throw the guns overboard, but it was not done, for the enemy's fire was becoming so rapid and severe that the Captain deemed it judicious to abandon the ship at once in order to save the lives of the men.
When the lull was over Farragut headed his ship for the fort, signalling to the remainder of the fleet, which followed close after him.
The reader will not forget the exploits of Captain David Porter, in command of the _Essex_ in the War of 1812.
Crashing planks and timber and exploding shells seemed to be all about them.
So it came about, after the slight success attained in bombarding Tripoli, that a plan was formulated for creating consternation in the blockaded city and bringing the defiant Bashaw to his senses.
They were in a trying position, for they were patriotic and would have given anything in the world to escape firing upon their countrymen, but there was no help for it.
It is stated by Richard Watson Gilder that when Captain Stewart was talking with the respective captains of the _Cyane_ and _Levant_ in his own cabin, the two fell into a dispute, each charging the other with failing to do the right thing during the engagement, and insisting that if it had been done they would not have been defeated.
A Man Devoid of Fear--William Barker Cushing--Some of His Exploits--The Blowing Up of the _Albemarle_--His Sad Death.
The mad rulers, not satisfied with deluging their own country with blood, were at war with most of the neighboring nations.
It was easy for Dewey to compel the surrender of Manila, but with the prudence that always guides him, he decided that since his force was not strong enough to occupy and hold the city, to await the arrival of reinforcements from the United States.
His remains were afterward removed to Newport, Rhode Island, where a magnificent monument was erected to his memory.
They fired slowly and with such accuracy that the infantry stationed outside of the works hastily fled, though the gunners bravely remained at their posts.
Afterward the weather became so thick with mist and fog as to render it necessary to lie to till daylight, before which time we had a heavy snowstorm.
Nothing could have suited the daring fellow better.
At any rate, he could not be put to a better use and certainly would not suspect the purpose of the American vessel which, as night was closing in, anchored offshore.
The Algerian admiral was the terror of the Mediterranean.
Foote now steamed down the river to Cairo and began the ascent of the Cumberland, to assist General Grant, who was marching overland to the attack on Fort Donelson.
The _Constitution_ was immediately after her, and by ten o'clock secured a position from which to deliver another of her terrible broadsides, seeing which the enemy surrendered.
His soldiers broke into cheers, but he sternly stopped them, with the advice to wait till the _Hartford_ was sunk.
It was understood that if the Dey agreed to the terms the captain would return in the boat with a white flag displayed at the bow.
Shortly after the arrival of Captain Winslow the following challenge was brought out to him: Confederate Steamer _Alabama_, Cherbourg, June 14, 1864.
The latter had the advantage of being so much smaller that many of the shells of the _Merrimac_ missed her altogether.
It was simply diversion for him to capture merchantmen or vessels that could make only a weak resistance, and he longed to give the enemy a taste of his mettle.
Through their glasses the officers could see groups of men on the quarter deck scanning them closely, while glimpses of sailors were caught as they moved about the deck and of the gun crews standing quietly at their stations.
They were separated by a gale and the _Peacock_ was continually beset by icebergs.
The _Essex_ was caught in a tempest that lasted for three days, and was so terrific that the stoutest hearted sailors quailed.
While at this station he became acquainted with Miss Susan B.