"Them juniper berries tastes the meat if you don't clean 'em out right away," he remarked casually to Lorraine, as he wiped the knife on his trousers and thrust it back into the boot-scabbard before he tied the grouse to the saddle by its blue, scaley little feet.
So she related garrulously certain incoherent, aimless utterances of Lorraine's, and cried a little, and thought it was perfectly awful that a sweet, pretty girl like that should be crazy.
"Straight hard work and minding your own business," her father had said, and it seemed to Lorraine after three or four days of it that he had summed up the life of a cattleman's daughter in a masterly manner which ought to be recorded among Famous Sayings like "War is hell" and "Don't give up the ship." On this particular morning Lorraine's spirits were at their lowest ebb.
"Where's Lone at?" Brit moved restlessly on the pillow and twisted his face at the pain.
Killings such as her father heard of with his lips drawn tight and the cords standing out on the sides of his skinny neck she would have considered the grim tragedies they were, without once thinking of the "picture value" of the crime.
It seemed to her exactly as though the earth was holding its breath and waiting for something terrible to happen.
"He's so drunk he falls out of wagon down the road, but he don't have whisky smell by his face," was Swan's ambiguous reply.
Swan put Jack once more on the scent of the handkerchief, and if actions meant anything, Jack proved conclusively that he found the Whisper camp reeking with the scent.
"I could swear in court that Fred's left foot was twisted--that's damn funny, Lone.
Lorraine afterwards decided that he must have seen or heard her coming down the ridge and had waited for her there.
Lone stood in the stirrups and looked.
Jack stopped and looked up at his master inquiringly, lifting his lip at the sides and showing his teeth.
If it were not for spoiling the picture, she would quit, she asserted indignantly.
He's bad for the government.
Moreover, Southerners are jealous of their women,--it is their especial prerogative.
And from all I can make out, they ain't goin' at all," Brit fretted.
Lorraine shuddered while she told him.
Minnie must be getting rich.
You think I slipped up--and you told me not to let my foot slip; said you'd hate to lose me.
He had the bluest eyes, the readiest smile, the healthiest color, the sunniest hair and disposition the Sawtooth country had seen for many a day.
You go ahead and ride him home.
She turned away, groping for the door latch.
I could say to her that a man is hurt and that a doctor must come very quickly to the Quirt ranch.
Her mother had told of people being struck by lightning, but Lorraine could not associate lightning with death, especially in the West, where men usually died by shooting, lynching, or by pitching over a cliff.
The road was very dusty and carried the wind-blown traces of automobile tires.
"Trailing me with a bunch, are yuh?
They might be her father's men, and they might have been very polite and chivalrous to her.
It was starlight now, and Swan did not hurry.
They would maybe say that I am crazy.
In spite of her fear, in spite of her grief, she felt that Swan was reading her very soul, and she backed away from him.
You might pick up something.
"Well, it's hard to explain," he said at last.
He laid his hand on her shoulder, pressing down hard--and at last his eyes met her big, searching ones.
But Lone gave him scant attention just then.
Swan himself could not have planned the approach more to his liking.
She walked fast and arrived at the telephone booth so breathless that she was compelled to wait a few minutes before she could call her number.
She wanted to hide as she had hidden from those two men; but from that stupendous monster, a real thunderstorm, sagebrush formed no protection whatever.
Lone could have smiled at the sight of Senator Warfield betraying himself so, had smiling been possible to him then.
He saw the bridle-reins dangling, broken, where the horse had stepped on them in running.
Monotony of landscape was one thing which Lorraine could not endure, unless it had a foreground of riders hurtling here and there, and of perspiring men around a camera tripod.
Lone turned his wrist to the right, and John Doe, obeying the rein signal, left the trail and began picking his way stiff-legged down the steep slope of the ridge, heading directly toward the home ranch.
Twice he had driven to Echo since her father had been hurt, and each time he had stopped at the corral on his way to the house.
A sense of unreality seized her.
She had started not more than an hour later than her father, but the team had trotted along more briskly than her poor old nag would travel, so that she did not overtake her dad as she had hoped.
"You mean you'd like to.
"Your hat's brown!" she exclaimed unguardedly.
I was watching out for leaks.
Behind Frank, Lorraine saw Jim and Sorry standing in their shirt sleeves looking out into the dark.
"Even a coyote slips up now and then, I reckon." Swan sat down, smoothing his tousled yellow hair with both hands as he did so.
But presently he took up the scent and led them down a barren slope and into grassy ground where a bunch of horses grazed contentedly.
Hunter?" "Good idea, I guess.
The two men looked at one another.
They never talked politics nor told which candidates received their two votes.
Swan watched his chance and gave Lone a chunk of bannock as a substitute for breakfast, and Lone, I may add, dropped behind his companions and ate every crumb of it, in spite of his worry over Lorraine.
Others were on their way to intercept Al Woodruff if he crossed before then.
Once he looked up into her sullenly distressed face and said, "Tired?" in a humanly sympathetic tone that made her blink back the tears.
"She'll be half-dead with cold--if we find her alive." Before Lone could answer, Swan looked back at the two and raised his hand for them to stop.
I don't want you _thinkin'_ about it.
THE EVIL EYE OF THE SAWTOOTH 115 X.
Swan had made a mistake, and he was humiliated over his blunder.
But I want to tell yuh, Swan, you can't take Al Woodruff as easy as you took me.
Then, coming back, he very matter-of-factly untied Lorraine and helped her off the horse.
Why----" Brit gave her a tolerant glance.
The postmaster himself--Lorraine was cheered by his spectacles, his shirt sleeves, and his chin whiskers, which made him look the part--was better informed.
But he was puzzled rather than anything else, and when Swan turned, facing him, Lone's bewilderment did not lessen.
I should maybe ask that you tell a lie if somebody asks questions.
And that, I suppose, is what they call in fiction the Western spirit!
The girl herself I couldn't get at very well and make it look accidental--and anyway, I never did kill a woman, and I'd hate it like hell.
She was continually worrying over rattlesnakes and diphtheria and pneumonia, and begging Brit to sell out and live in town.
The trail crossed the ridge half a mile beyond Rock City, dipping into the lower end of the small gulch where he had overtaken the girl.
"The inquest was as clean as I ever saw.
A clump of young trees hid the lower declivity.
Brit was still braced and clinging to the reins.
At the post-office the anemic clerk came forward, eyeing her with admiring curiosity.
Neither was Brit the man to forget the brake on his load.
The note which he wrote painstakingly, lest she might think him lacking in education, he laid upon the table beside Lorraine's plate; then went out, closing the door behind him as quietly as a squeaking door can be made to close.
It belongs to the Sawtooth.
Lorraine had seen many stage storms and had thrilled ecstatically to the mimic lightning, knowing just how it was made.
"We'll take him into the bunk-house and bring him to.
The inquest was rather short, since there was only one witness to testify, and Lone merely told how he had discovered the horse there by the creek, and that the body had not been moved from where he found it.
He wondered how much else she had told; how much she remembered of what she had told him.
Yet she felt baffled; cheated of the full horror of being kidnapped.
They stopped to water their horses, and they were talking.
Many times Swan had her lower the stretcher to the ground, and would make a great show of rubbing his arms and easing his shoulder muscles.
Warfield and Hawkins might wait and listen and hope that Lorraine, wide-eyed and weary, would steal up to the warmth of the fire; but not Lone.
He was drug with a horse and killed." Lorraine caught her breath, saw Brit looking at her curiously and moved closer to him.
John Doe, plainly glad to find an excuse to stop, slowed and came to where Swan waited by the gate.
A somewhat unusual love story runs through the book.--_Boston Transcript_.
"Make yourself safe as yuh please, but give me a fair show.
But the road showed no sign of a struggle, though there were, here and there, hoofprints half washed out with the rain.
* * * * _All rights reserved_ Published May, 1920 Reprinted, May, 1920 Reprinted, July, 1920 Reprinted, October, 1920 CONTENTS CHAPTER PAGE I.
You'd be better peeled, I believe." She heard a chuckle behind her and turned quickly, palm up to shield her eyes from the straight, bright rays of the sun.
"No matter who she is or what she is, she mustn't tell that!" "Hello!
Lorraine, in the other room, heard the squeak and sat up.
"It's the talk they may get started." "What have they said?
His brother went crazy in our house and----" "Yes, yes--we'll take care of her.
"Well, he started off with a cracked doubletree," he said slowly.
Lorraine furnished him with details and her opinion of both Caroline and Yellow jacket.
"He was coming down the Whisper trail as I was taking the fork over to Sugar Spring, Frank and me.
That right?" "No, it ain't right," Lone denied promptly, his dark eyes meeting Al's glance steadily.
"Yack, he take up the trail of a coyote," Swan explained, "but it's got the four legs, and Yack, he don't understand me when I don't follow.
But she shook off the emotion and faced him again.
He may die yet--I don't know what effect this shock will have upon him.
"They can't be let peddle talk--not if I stay around here." Senator Warfield considered the matter.
He couldn't be beaten because he wouldn't give up.
Mebby Bob, he stakes himself to a different name now and then.
"If you like to find that jong lady, I put Yack on the trail quick," he offered placatingly.
His face darkened, a sneer twisted his lips.
True, if a homesteader left his claim for a longer time than the law allowed him, Bill Warfield would choose one of his own men to file a contest on that claim.
The legislature is willing to make an appropriation for the building of the canal, and in two or three months at the latest we should begin selling agricultural tracts to the public.
"By golly, my shoulder is sore yet from carrying Brit Hunter," he remarked carelessly, flexing his muscles and grimacing a little.
They did not really need the dog, for the hoofprints were easily followed for the greater part of the way.
Did you _see_ him shoot that man?
Lorraine looked after her father enviously.
His manner was diffident, deprecating even.
I'll ride over with yuh, maybe." "I got legs," Swan returned laconically.
"Have you got time to go back to the office and fix up my time, Hawkins?" he asked without prelude.
Look how she has ridden that horse!
Up on the ridge Al Woodruff lowered his small binocular and eased away from the spot where he had been crouching behind a bush.
Dad has driven in after my other luggage to-day--and I believe I must be getting home.
Lorraine stepped off on the uphill side of him, thanked her lucky stars she had not broken a leg, and tried to reassure Yellowjacket and to persuade him that no real harm had been done him.
"I wasn't sure afterwards; sometimes I thought I had dreamed it.
Yack, he picks up the trail from here to where you can follow easy.
Al had kept himself so successfully in the background while Lone's peculiar actions had held his attention, that Swan had never considered Al Woodruff as the killer.
"Ket--I'm afraid of that man at Whisper!" she breathed miserably against its fur.
I think it was dad.
We've stole 'em blind for years, and they wouldn't cry if we got hung.
Why mustn't I tell any one?" Lone did not reply at once.
The Quirt and the Sawtooth aren't very intimate.
A full-voiced shout answered her from farther up the canyon, and she ran stumbling toward the sound, too agonized to shed tears or to think very clearly.
Something happens: to me, mebby, or Frank, or both of us.
He had been watching Lone and Swan and the dog, trailing certain tracks through the sagebrush down below, and when Lorraine rode away from the Quirt they were in the wagon road, fussing around the place where Frank had been found.
They were afraid of what Lorraine knew.
"YACK, I LICK YOU GOOD IF YOU BARK" 277 XXIII.
Lone went back to his horse and rode on, still looking for the bag.
"Well, then I'll have to lay you down," said Al, lifting her to her feet.
But to think that these things could be done without fear of retribution.
With her hands tied, she could do nothing at all save sit there and ride wherever Al Woodruff chose to lead her horse.
They would find themselves fenced off from water, the Sawtooth having acquired the water rights to creek or spring.
She would escape him if she could without too great a risk of being shot.
I was going to kill you first chance I got.
"I didn't tell him anything.
Is he drunk?" This was Sorry who came up to Swan and stood ready to lend a hand.
The dog would trail Al anywhere, since the scent would be less than twenty-four hours old.
The second time he went, Pop Bridgers spied him first and cackled over his coming to see the girl.
She could cook better food than her dad had been content to eat and to set before others, but Swan's bread was a triumph in sour dough.
I never mentioned it to anybody, and you'll forget all about it, I hope.
If not, Warfield could hurry Lorraine away before Swan could act in the matter.
"I'm careful always when I corner a coward." "Al ain't a coward.
Never a scheme for the country's development was hatched but you would find Senator Warfield closely allied with it, his voice the deciding one when policies and progress were being discussed.
"Raine, you----" He closed his eyes again, and she could get no further speech from him.
There ain't no breath to smell," Sorry exclaimed as unexpectedly as his speeches usually were.
No one could have foreseen Brit's accident; no one save the man who had prepared it for him, and he would be the last person to call for help.
"You _do_ know what I mean.
They were mostly commonplace young men, jogging past the house on horseback, or loitering down by the corrals.
Swan got up and, moving stealthily, followed the dog.
It may sound strange to say that the Sawtooth country had not had a real "killing" for years, though accidental deaths had been rather frequent.
That water right meant the hull ranch--everything he owned.
"I think I'll walk," she said calmly.
"Hello!" he called, standing in the doorway and grinning a welcome to Swan, who stood with one arm resting on the board gate.
Swan grinned good-humoredly, glanced conscience-stricken at the covered figure on the ground and straightened his face decorously.
Raine, you better pack up and go home to your mother.
"Her horse acted about played out when she hit the ranch.
I'll _show_ you one, down the road here a little piece.
CHAPTER FOURTEEN "FRANK'S DEAD" "Frank come yet?" The peevish impatience of an invalid whose horizon has narrowed to his own personal welfare and wants was in Brit's voice.
Lorraine looked at him, rode on a few steps and turned.
The biggest band of thieves he could get together is that company.
Lone did not hope for much and said so.
Lorraine and her suitcase apparently excited no interest whatever in Echo, Idaho.
That's where I've slept, the last few years when I wasn't off on location--but it's just as sensible to think I don't know anything else, as it would be for me to think you can't do anything but skim milk and fry bacon and make sour-dough bread, just because I've seen you do it!" Brit laughed and patted her awkwardly on the back.
"Is she the one who came here temporarily--deranged?" "She's the girl," Hawkins affirmed, his eyes everywhere but on Lorraine's face.
I'll herd cattle, or do whatever there is to do.
_I_ never had no trouble with 'em--they're good at holdin' a load.
His search was thorough and, being a keen-eyed young man, he discovered the place where Lorraine had crouched down by a rock.
I have a great pain on my shoulder from carrying so long." "You never mentioned it!" Lorraine reproached him quickly.
During his first visit, the foreman's wife told him that the young lady was still too sick to talk much.
If you think you frame something, maybe, I pack a dead man to the Quirt again." "You can, for all me," Lone replied quietly.
Yr loveing father." Lorraine hugged the cat so violently that she choked off a purr in the middle.
The sun sent a bright, wide bar of yellow light across the room to rest on the shelf behind the stove where stood the salt can, the soda, the teapot, a box of matches and two pepper cans, one empty and the other full.
She needed at least ten dollars.
The coroner'll likely appoint somebody to look around and see if he's got any folks to send his stuff to.
He wanted to believe that Thurman's death was purely an accident,--the accident it appeared.
Not once did she doubt that this was the doing of the Sawtooth, another carefully planned "accident" calculated to rid the country of another man who in some fashion had become inimical to their interests.
You look good to me with bracelets on, when you talk so willing to go to jail for murder." He had slipped the rifle butt to the ground, and before Lone quite realized what he was doing Swan had a short, wicked-looking automatic pistol in one hand and a pair of handcuffs in the other.
It seldom springs into full power at once.
SWAN TALKS WITH HIS THOUGHTS 144 XII.
The one I saw had on a brown hat, and this man wears a brown hat--and I was advised not to tell any one I had been at that place they call Rock City, when the storm came.
If the country was open, you would see Al Woodruff riding at some distance from the trail--or you would not see him at all, if there were gullies in which he could conceal himself.
The woods were dark, the firelight and the warmth enticed her.
He was taking it for granted that Warfield and Hawkins would stop when it became too dark to follow the hoofprints, and without Jack to show them the way they would perforce remain where they were until daybreak.
Lorraine felt hope slipping from her.
Swan, I'll get you that tobacco first and see if Brit needs anything." He started to the house, and Swan followed him aimlessly, his long strides bringing him close to Lone before they reached the door.
It looks to me like it was turned loose, back there, and come on alone.
She would have loved it if only the man opposite were Lone, or Swan, or some one else whom she knew and trusted.
And I learned to do lots of things when I was working in that play West I thought was real.
"He's not hurt, is he?" Lorraine pressed close, and felt a hand on her arm pulling her gently away.
He waited, repeating the call.
Well----" His eyes left Warfield's face and went beyond the staring group.
Snake lagged a little on the upgrades, but he was well trained to lead and gave little trouble.
And right on top of that she said she didn't think they ought to stage a murder and a thunderstorm in the same scene, and thought they ought to save the thunder and lightning for the murderer to make his getaway by.
So she was Brit Hunter's girl!
I'm just making a guess at their brand--and it ain't the brand this little lady carries." Bob removed one hand from his pocket and cuddled the bowl of his pipe.
But her eyes widened at the look in his face, and she tried to edge away from him without seeming to do so.
Lone grinned and dissembled as best he could, knowing that Pop Bridgers fed his imagination upon denials and argument and remonstrance and was likely to build gossip that might spread beyond the Sawtooth.
They plan to charge her with insanity.
He had seen in Lorraine's eyes, as they glanced here and there about the grimy walls, a certain disparagement of her surroundings.
A lot _you_ know about courage!
That he had been neutral was merely an accident of birth, perhaps.
They all are, down deep in their tricky hearts.
"I'll bet Thurman would sell you for a bent nickel, this morning." The horse squatted and jumped when he cast the loop, and then stood quivering and snorting while Lone dismounted and started toward him.
She was beginning to change hands very often when the wind came.
Senator Warfield showed no especial interest in Swan, and the Swede was permitted without comment to take his dog and strike off up the ridge.
REALITY IS WEIGHED AND FOUND WANTING 22 IV.
"Hawkins knows that's a fact.
Ole Yellowjacket used to be a real rim-rider, but he's gitting old; gitting old--same as me." "You're not!
When he confessed that he did not know Mr.
They were watching him, and Swan blushed a deep red while he told them about his mother in Boise, and how he could talk to her with his thoughts.
Al slid the gun back into his holster, leaned from his saddle and picked up the dead grouse as unconcernedly as he would have dismounted, pulled his knife from his boot and drew the bird neatly, flinging the crop and entrails from him.
"Now, if you'll be a good girl, I'll untie your hands," he said, glancing up into her face.
Lone would stay and help, and somehow it would be managed.
That's good enough to satisfy him--till you get the drop on him.
He hesitated and replaced the saddle, pulling the blanket straight under it.
What's all this about Brit being hurt?
While Lorraine was wondering if the poor thing had hurt a leg in lighting, Al clipped its head off neatly with a bullet from his six-shooter, though Lorraine had not seen him pull the gun and did not know he meant to shoot.
She did not believe in lumping big stuff together like that.
In this Frank Johnson, old-time friend and neighbor, who had taken all the land the government would allow one man to hold, and whose lines joined Brit's, profanely upheld him.
Lorraine looked down its steep, rock-roughened sides and thought how her old director would have raved over its possibilities in the way of "stunts." Yellow jacket, she noticed, kept circumspectly to the center of the trail and eyed the canyon with frank disfavor.
"I always prefer to deal in the open with every one," he averred.
But I made him guess some, maybe.
"Her horse was worn out when she reached the ranch.
And if you have medicine, it should be on his head quick." Lone was standing with his fingers pressed on Frank's wrist.
You said it was under a bush where a rabbit was sitting.
You put your dog on the trail of that one particular horse, and he showed yuh where it was feeding with the bunch.
At eighteen Lorraine managed somehow to obtain work in a Western picture, and being unusually pretty she so far distinguished herself that she was given a small part in the next production.
It seemed to him that the sleepy little meadows, the quiet murmuring of the creek, even the soft rustling of the cottonwood leaves breathed a new loneliness, an emptiness where the man who had called this place home, who had clung to it in the face of opposition that was growing into open warfare, had lived and had left life suddenly--unwarrantably, Lone knew in his heart.
The Sawtooth cannot permit itself to become involved in any scandal, nor in any killing cases.
Sometimes a Sawtooth man would purchase a relinquishment from some poor devil of a claim-holder who seemed always to have bad luck, and so became discouraged and ready to sell.
In a very few minutes he stopped in a rocky depression where a horse had been tied, and waited for Swan, wagging his tail and showing his teeth in a panting smile.
Al very seldom traveled along the beaten trails, though there was nothing to deter him now save an inherent tendency toward secretiveness of his motives, destinations and whereabouts.
It was very beautiful, with the slanting sun-rays painting broad yellow bars across the gloom of the forest.
There was nothing to do, nothing to see, no one to talk to.
"I don't know much about it.
That it had been "hands off the Quirt" he did not know, but attributed the Quirt's immunity to careful habits and the fact that they had never come to the point where their interests actually clashed with the Sawtooth.
He would have quarreled with his best-beloved woman that morning, and he began on Swan.
THE SAWTOOTH SHOWS ITS HAND 200 XVII.
He held it to Jack's nose and whispered, "You find him, Yack--and I lick you good if you bark." Jack sniffed, dropped his nose to the ground and began tugging at the leash.
If she reached the point of furnishing details she would tell you that she had ridden horses from the time that she could walk, and that her father was a cattle-king of Idaho, whose cattle fed upon a thousand hills.
He wrote this painstakingly to the lawyer and received no reply.
With a quick impulse of penitence she waved her hand to Brit, who waved back at her.
Then his eyes lightened with amused appreciation of the Swede's cunning.
Us here, _we_ never knowed it, and I was tryin' to send him back when you came.
=LONESOME LAND= A story of modern Montana, giving a wholly different phase of life among the ranches.
Lone flushed, but there was nothing to do but hold out his hands.
He had been a reporter,--was still, he maintained.
Why does every one just keep still and let things happen, and not say a word?
He isn't _dead_, is he?" Swan turned his head and stared down at her, and from her face his glance went sharply to Lone's downcast face.
Instead he had learned a good deal which he should have known before.
She decided that his forehead was too narrow to please her, and that his eyes were too close together, and that the lines around his mouth were cruel lines and gave the lie to his smile, which was pleasant enough if you just looked at the smile and paid no attention to anything else in his face.
"It ain't that they can _do_ anything, Mr.
Isn't that a man's track, just beside that flat rock?
"Just shows you, Swan, that imagination and being alone all the time can raise Cain with a fellow.
We'll have to assume the responsibility ourselves, I'm afraid, Hawkins.
"He rode over to see her yesterday.
One thing he knew, and that was his determination to stay with these two of the Sawtooth until he had some definite information; until he saw Lorraine or knew that she was safe from them.
He was walking when Frank overtook him, I reckon--maybe claiming his horse had broke away from him.
He had probably been watching while she and Swan made that stretcher and carried her dad away out of his reach.
Lorraine took a long look at the structure which he indicated as the hotel.
It was not her father's voice; she knew that beyond all doubt.
Pop Bridgers saw him and came bow-legging eagerly forward with gossip titillating on his meddlesome tongue, but Lone stalked by him with only a surly nod.
Most generally it's because some one's got the drop on 'im." Lorraine would not accept that.
But with her horse fagged as it was, we had no idea that we would fail to get even a sight of her.
There is law in this land, even if----" "This is pathetic," said Senator Warfield, still speaking to Hawkins.
If she rode south she would eventually come to the top of a hill whence she could look down upon further stretches of barrenness.
"A superfluous gift of doubtful value.
"Warfield, by----!" Al blurted in his outraged astonishment.
Al's mind seemed intent upon making Skinner comfortable.
I just thought I'd tell you; I'd hate to see you misunderstood by folks around here.
"I'm not used to the climate," she added guardedly.
The terror in her face and her wide eyes would have made her famous in the movies.
He tried to remember whether Warfield had mentioned it first and could not.
Over the hills where her father's vast herds grazed, sleek and wild and long-horned and prone to stampede, galloped the Lorraine of Lorraine's dreams, on horses sure-footed and swift.
"I think I know the play you're making, but it won't get you anything, Bill Warfield.
"Why don't you peel him, just on a chance?" His smile broadened to a grin, but when Lorraine continued to look at him with a neutral expression in her eyes, he threw away his cigarette and abandoned with it his free-and-easy manner.
Swan went over to where Lone, anxious to get away from the place, was untying his horse after the jury had officially named the death an accident.
"You might speak to the sheriff.
"My foot ain't going to slip---- If it did, the Sawtooth would be the first to pile onto my back!" The last sentence was not meant for the senator's ears.
"What took him off again in such a rush?" "Oh, I don't know!
More months passed, and Brit received, by registered mail, a notice that he was being sued for divorce on the ground of non-support.
She glanced at the foreman's cottage only to make sure that Hawkins was nowhere in sight there, and rode on toward the corrals, intercepting Hawkins and a large, well-groomed, smooth-faced man whom she knew at once must be Senator Warfield himself.
Now what becomes of that ranch?
I stopped two, and this one----" He glanced down at Lorraine, who sat beside the fire, a blanket tied tightly around her waist and her ankles, so that, while comfortably free, she could make no move to escape.
But his face sobered as he rode along.
The girl was at the ranch for several days.
I ain't blaming you--but you told too much to Al Woodruff.
"I'll learn yuh a trick or two about camp cooking.
"I'll go see if she's home," Lone explained, and reined John Doe toward the house.
Indeed, if he followed the trail up Granite Creek and across the hilly country to Quirt Creek, he must pass within fifty yards of the Thurman cabin.
Getting Warfield for having men killed is getting Warfield without telling secrets of politics.
Just feed any stock that's kept up, if nobody's there." "All right," Swan agreed readily.
"I don't know a thing about her," he stated emphatically.
She had been walking steadily for four hours, and she must surely have come nearly twenty miles.
What do you want?" Al moistened his lips with his tongue.
The _boys_--Ket, it would be terribly funny, if I didn't have to stay here." She had reached the corral and stood balancing the cat on a warped top rail, staring disconsolately at Yellowjacket, who stood in a far corner switching at flies and shamelessly displaying all the angularity of his bones under a yellowish hide with roughened hair that was shedding dreadfully, as Lorraine had discovered to her dismay when she removed her green corduroy skirt after riding him.
I ain't asking you if you'll marry me.
Why, I've seen one man fight a whole outfit and win.
Sorry had gone to Echo to send a telegram to the coroner, and he was likely to return now at any time.
But this man at Whisper tried to find out where I was that night----" Brit pulled abruptly away from her, got up and opened the door.
He should be removed to a hospital, unless you are prepared to have a nurse here for some time, or to assume the burden of a long and tedious illness." He looked at her thoughtfully.
"You don't think any accident would happen to _me_, do you?" "Well, no--er I wouldn't advise yuh to go ridin'," Jim said thoughtfully.
"Rabbits in a trap," Brit muttered, staring at the low ceiling.
Lorraine wondered how much worse it would look after it had been tied on the saddle for half a day; wondered too what those two silent ones got out of life,--what they looked forward to, what was their final goal.
Him and his killers can't always keep under cover.
No, I don't know where." "I--see.
Oh, did a doctor come, then?
An engrossing ranch story with a new note of interest woven into its breezy texture.--_Philadelphia Public Ledger_.
Some one would surely overtake her and give her a ride before she walked very far.
She wondered irrelevantly why her mother had never mentioned these queer rocks, and she wondered vaguely if any of them had caves or ledges where she could be safe from the lightning.
"Do you mind if I smoke?" he asked perfunctorily.
But if you try to break away, I'll shoot you, that's all.
The horses, sleek in their new hair and skittish with the change from hay to new grass, danced over the rough ground so that the running gear of the wagon, with its looped log-chain, which would later do duty as a brake on the long grade down from timber line on the side of Spirit Canyon, rattled and banged over the rocks with a clatter that could be heard for half a mile.
You didn't tell _him_, did you?" His tone, the suppressed violence of his manner, frightened Lorraine.
"That blood most likely got there when Fred was packing a deer in from the hills.
We picked him up back here about three-quarters of a mile or so." "What's the matter?
"I thought you were on another trail!" "That trail leads here, Lone.
Their actual nearness could not comfort her.
"Do you see how it was done, Swan?
"Yeah," said Sorry, answering for them both, and they went out, giving Swan a sidelong look of utter bafflement as they passed him.
_See page 294._] THE QUIRT BY B.M.
That means straight, hard work and mindin' your own business.
Could you do that, Miss?" "Lie?" Lorraine laughed uncertainly.
"Say, you sure enough played hell all around, bringin' Brit Hunter's girl to the Sawtooth!" he began, chuckling as if he had some secret joke.
Her father had made no objection before when she went for a ride.
She saw a darker shade of red creep up into his cheeks.
She caught his hand and held it, feeling its roughness between her two soft palms.
Soon as they found out where I belonged, they brought me over here and dropped me and forgot all about me.
I found your purse, though." "Thank you so much.
If there's whisky, wouldn't that help if he swallowed some now?
He was not yet supplied with evidence enough to warrant arresting Warfield and Hawkins, but he hoped to get it when the real crisis came.
"If he didn't go to Whisper, I'll eat my hat." "You're the man to know," Swan retorted grimly.
CHAPTER ELEVEN SWAN TALKS WITH HIS THOUGHTS Lorraine, following instinct rather than thought, pulled Yellowjacket into the first opening that presented itself.
Warfield, he don't want the damn Swede hanging around.
"What do you make of this new play?" Lone muttered cautiously when he saw Swan's shadow move close to his own.
I find out for myself if I make mistake." "Go to it," Lone advised him coldly.
She told me she thought the villain in one of the plays she acted in had pulled off a stage murder in them rocks.
What else could happen?" Sorry edged away from her.
She stood and looked at the orderly group of boulders as the lightning intermittently revealed them.
You let Skinner go to suit himself--and if he goes wrong, you pay, because it'll be you reining him wrong.
I don't know--it was lying down.
Warfield and I found it, thank you.
The Sawtooth, under the management of a greatly chastened young Bob Warfield, was slowly winning its way back to the respect of its neighbors.
His brake didn't hold, eh?" "I look at that wagon," Swan answered carefully.
Is that the idea, Lone?" Lone turned unhurriedly and looked at young Bob Warfield standing in the stable door with his hands in his trousers pockets and his pipe in his mouth.
I never heard about any of the boys finding it." His thoughts returned to Al Woodruff and stopped there.
She wanted to scream, and yet she could think of nothing to scream over.
And that he had not become involved in the quarrel that raged among his neighbors was the direct result of a genius for holding his tongue.
Swan was talking earnestly, the mumble of his voice reaching Lorraine without the enunciation of any particular word to give a clue to what he was saying.
"You don't know anything that's going to do any one any good, and what you don't know there's no good guessing.
And then they were perfectly lovely about it and brought me--home." She turned the purse over and over in her hands, looking at it without much interest.
"It's a comedy part for the cattle-queen's daughter," she admitted, putting out a hand to stroke the lean, gray cat that jumped upon her bed from the open window.
"I'll do nothing of the kind!" Lorraine set her mouth stubbornly.
In the sodden road were the unmistakable footprints of a woman.
At the bottom Swan stopped her so that he might shorten the rope and take more of the weight on his shoulders.
He licked his lips, looked over his shoulder at Swan, and draped his pink tongue down over his lower jaw again.
She did not acknowledge to herself that she also could not face the admission of failure to carry out what she had begun.
He took a horse collar and scrubbed it until he nearly wore out the leather.
Hunter deserted him she did not jeopardize his right to the land.
"You must of got there about the time the storm broke," the man hazarded after a silence.
The TJ'll git theirs and git it right.
But that girl--she mustn't talk like that!" Of Swan he scarcely gave a thought after the Swede had disappeared, yet Swan was worth a thought or two, even from a man who was bent on minding his own business.
Montana described as it really is, is the "lonesome land" of this new Bower story.
She dreaded his awakening and the moment when she must tell him about Frank, and she had an unreasonable hope that the news might be kept from him until the doctor came again.
I don't have experience in killing somebody," Swan returned blandly, and Lone was too preoccupied to wonder at the unaccustomed sarcasm.
"I saw a man murdered," she cried.
It goes into politics, Loney, and it goes deep.
You will kill a man for the sake of a few dollars, but you kill in the dark.
"I'm going to my cabin, and you don't say anything when I leave.
She was plumb out of her head, and talked wild, but she handled her reins like a rider.
You've read stories, and you've saw moving pictures, and you think that's the West--that's the way they do it.
We don't need that medicine, nor a doctor either.
It never occurred to her that she should submit to the inevitable just because the men appeared to do so.
It looked to Swan very much like a muddling of the Sawtooth affairs through over-anxiety to avoid trouble.
Brit opened his eyes and moved his thin lips in some kind of greeting, and Lone sat down on the edge of a chair, feeling as miserably guilty as if he himself had brought the old man to this pass.
I--could----" He was down, bleeding and coughing and trying to talk.
Yuh may pin this on to Al, but that won't let the Sawtooth in.
I don't fight women, and I'll say right now, to her and to you, that I've got all the respect in the world for this little girl, and if I'd married her I'd have been as good to her as I know how, and as she'd let me be.
Seems to me you 'n' him have got a lot to say to each other, Raine." "Why, nothing in particular.
Where the trail was rocky, they took it and made better time.
Where's the horses, Raine?" "They're all right.
Dad, I'll go _crazy_ if you don't let me into your life!
"That irrigation graft is killed now.
The afterglow had deepened to dusk when she came at last to the highest point of that long grade.
When she was fifteen she sat breathless in the movies and watched picturesque horsemen careering up and down and around the thousand hills, and believed in her heart that half the Western pictures were taken on or near her father's ranch.
It isn't hopeless, I assure you--but I'm mighty glad I happened to be here so that I can take charge of the case.
They kept the same two men season after season,--leathery old range hands with eyes that saw whatever came within their field of vision, and with the gift of silence, which is rare.
She hated the three old maids on the third floor and the frowsy woman on the first, who sat on the front steps in her soiled breakfast cap and bungalow apron.
Had she lived her life on the Quirt ranch she would have known a great deal more about horseback riding and cattle and range dances.
Dad, isn't your brand the TJ?
But to offset that, Lone's reason told him that Warfield had probably not known that Frank was dead.
So you go with them, Loney.
He was tempted to look, and yet he did not want to know.
"The doctor will be there," he remarked, just as if it were the simplest thing in the world.
Another mile seemed a long way, light though Swan had made the load for her.
Against the skyline Lorraine saw the rider's form bulk squatty and ungraceful, reminding her of an actor whom she knew and did not like.
He's out to hold up the State for all he can get, and bleed the poor devils of farmers white, that buys land under that canal.
Her nerves were ragged from nursing her dad and from worrying over things she must not talk about,--that forbidden subject which never left her mind for long.
And Yellowjacket was up that little gully just this side of the wreck, when I left him.
The day would be long enough, at best.
He tiptoed in to the bed and saw a sallow face covered with stubbly gray whiskers and framed with white bandages.
A rabbit," she told him impressively, "wouldn't sit out in the rain all night, would he?
And when he'd took the case up and up till it got to the Supreme Court, and he stood some show of winnin' out--he had an accident.
"But you better not touch anything in the house, Swan.
Much riding upon upholstered cushions had not helped Senator Warfield to retain the tough muscles of hard-riding Bill Warfield.
"Well," he said flatly, "who is it this time?
Brit she did not see at all.
I think maybe he dies with all his bones broke, like that.
Pop, here, was wondering if she was another heart-ballum girl of yours," Lone grinned unabashed.
Lone never talked of himself except as his personal history touched a common interest with his fellows.
She rode over to the Sawtooth, and I got her at Thurman's place, on her way home, and figured I'd marry her and take a chance on keeping her quiet afterwards.
Swan made his way as close as he dared, without being discovered, and sat down to wait.
John Doe was streaked with sweat and his flanks were palpitating with fatigue when Lone rode up to the corral and dismounted.
Much hard use and occasional oilings had darkened the leather to a rich, red brown, marred with old scars and scratches and the stains of many storms.
"Where'd Lone go so sudden?" he asked, when she came close to him in the dusk.
Also she danced quite close to the camera in the "Typical Cowboy Dance" which was a feature of this particular production.
"Some of dad's cowboys, probably, but still they _may_ be bandits." If they were bandits they could scarcely be out banditting, for the two horsemen were talking in ordinary, conversational tones as they rode leisurely down to the ford.
Did you find Raine yet?" "Not a sign of her.
Her mother was trying to collect a gas bill from the dressmaker down the hall, who protested shrilly that she distinctly remembered having paid that gas bill once and had no intention of paying it twice.
"If he saw you leave, I shouldn't think he'd come here and ask for you." "He knowed I was gone," Brit stated briefly.
She heard the sharp staccato of John Doe's hoofbeats and wondered why Lone had not waited for another word from her.
They never clean their toe-nails, and blood poison generally sets in where they leave a scratch.
It might be of no use to think about it, but the vivid memory of Fred Thurman was with him when he rode up the trail to the stable and the small corrals.
I thought Westerners never quit.
She was astonished that the idea had never before crystallized into action.
But they're going too strong for any white man to stand for.
He's foreman of the Sawtooth, and he knows the agreement.
It possesses all the popular ingredients--a quick-action plot, color and picturesqueness aplenty, and an unflagging interest--to be found in Bower's earlier successes.--_Philadelphia Public Ledger_.
"You're Miss Hunter, aren't you?
As well as if he had sat at their breakfast table Al knew where each man's work would take him that day.
The coroner, an important little man, examined the body, the horse and the saddle, and there was the usual formula of swearing in a jury.
Swan looked up straight into Lone's dark, brooding eyes.
Tough as he was, he had at last reached the limit of his energy and ambition.
He could see no reason why a horse should have stood there with his head toward the road ten feet away, unless his rider was waiting for something--or some one.
Maybe she wanted lace curtains, or something.
But when the horse came circling back with a great flourish, she shivered and her hands closed into the fists of a fighter.
He put it into his pocket, came silently up to Lorraine and pulled off her other glove.
Lorraine gave a sharp little scream and set down the stretcher with a lurch, staring after the horse wide-eyed, her face white.
The less you have, the more careful you are of your possessions.
You sure can't drive this team." "I can!" Lorraine contended.
Better let me take you in to the ranch." "I was going to the ranch--did you see him shoot that man and make the horse drag him--_make_ the horse--he _slashed_ that horse with the quirt--and he went tearing down the road dragging--it--it was--_horrible_!" "Yes--yes, don't worry about it.
Because I certainly saw a man crawl out from under the wagon and start up the hill.
Or they would be hemmed in with fenced fields and would find it next to impossible to make use of the law which gave them the right to "condemn" a road through.
At Lone he did not look at all.
But Snake appeared perfectly able and willing to hold it and never stumbled or slowed unexpectedly as did Yellowjacket, wherefore Lorraine rode faster than she would have done had she known more about horses.
CHAPTER TEN ANOTHER SAWTOOTH "ACCIDENT" Frank Johnson rose from the breakfast table, shaved a splinter off the edge of the water bench for a toothpick and sharpened it carefully while he looked at Brit.
"I hope you won't mind my telling you.
Swan had furnished a few extra frills to his cupboard, for the ends of the boxes were fastened to hewn slabs standing upright and just clearing the floor.
"One mile more is all, and we get the horses and I make a good bed for you." He looked a signal, and Lorraine once more took up the stretcher.
Then Swan took the blue handkerchief from his pocket, called Jack to him and muttered something in Swedish while the dog sniffed at the cloth.
"And let me tell you, folks, Warfield raised hell with me because Brit Hunter wasn't killed when he pitched over the grade.
Too many young men of Bob Warfield's general type had attempted to make love to her--lightly and not too well--for Lorraine to be greatly impressed.
But--what I want you to know is that if they're fighting you they'll have to fight me, too.
Since his neighboring ranchmen had not been able to prevent his steady climbing to the position he now held, they had small hope of pulling him down.
Al put up his gun, pulled a hunting knife from a little scabbard in his boot, sliced two pairs of saddle strings from Lorraine's saddle, calmly caught and held her foot when she tried to kick him, pushed the foot back into the stirrup and tied it there with one of the leather strings.
He was drug to death by his horse." Brit stooped and opened the stove door, seeking a live coal; found none and turned again to Lorraine, shaking his pipe at her for emphasis.
If this keeps on, I'm afraid you will have to take her in and have her committed for insanity.
As to Fred Thurman, I don't know anything about it.
She's a nice girl, far as I could tell.
Left foot in right stirrup----" He pushed back his hat and rumpled his yellow hair, looking up into Brit's face inquiringly.
Of the night's storm remained no trace save slippery mud when his horse struck a patch of clay, which was not often, and the packed sand still wet and soggy from the beating rain.
There's been a lot of excitement already for the old man.
"They're easy loaded, and I guess my back's as good as yourn." "All you got to do is skid 'em down off'n the bank onto the wagon," Frank said.
"Something killed a bird," Swan explained politely, planting one of his own big feet over the track, which did not in the least resemble Lorraine's.
"He didn't die--he got killed last night," he corrected.
You sure enough belittle me, if you think you'd have a chance in a million of getting away from me!" She fought him, then, with a great, inner relief that the situation was at last swinging around to a normal kidnapping.
I did think them two were stalling.
I'm going back that far, and we'll pick up the trail, unless we find her at the ranch.
Lorraine watched him for a minute and returned to the kitchen door, peering out and listening for Frank to come from Echo with supplies and the mail and, more important just now, fresh fruit for her father.
"That accounts for it." CHAPTER NINETEEN SWAN CALLS FOR HELP Past the field where the horses were grazing and up the canyon on the side toward Skyline Meadow, that lay on a shoulder of Bear Top, the dog nosed unfalteringly along the trail.
The man in charge there chewed tobacco meditatively and told her that his teams were all out.
He turned upon Lorraine almost fiercely.
A few tiny grains of sandstone rattled out, and in the center was a small blood spot.
When he had gone some distance, he sat down and took from under his coat two huge, crudely made moccasins of coyote skin.
"Yore nerves are sure shot to hell," he blurted sympathetically as she rode past him.
There has been so much truck written in the last few years about motion pictures, that it is a positive relief to find a book by an author who knows exactly what to talk about in an entertaining manner with a knowledge of actual conditions as they exist.--_Boston Post_.
Yellowjacket was going to sleep without making any effort to find the way home.
Without seeming to have any extra luggage, he had nevertheless carried a very efficient camp outfit with him.
Of towns Brit knew nothing except the post-office, saloon, cheap restaurant side,--and a barber shop where a fellow could get a shave and hair-cut before he went to see his girl.
"We'll get him, by golly, but we don't have to starve ourselves." "He wouldn't know we're after him," Lone agreed.
He sat with his legs crossed in true range fashion and stared into the fire while he smoked.
"Are you the man I saw shoot that man and then fasten him to the stirrup of the saddle so the horse dragged him down the road?
She didn't talk there, or Hawkins would have told me." "She was sick.
She dropped a glove beside the trail, where it lay in plain sight of any one following them.
He's been on hand right along.
=THE LOOKOUT MAN= A tale of action, excitement and love, full of the charm of the great outdoors, in which the story of the life at a Forest Reserve Station on top of a California mountain is vividly portrayed.
If she rode east she would come eventually to the road along which she had walked from Echo, Idaho.
Lorraine waited beside her father, helpless and miserable.
"I was fixing to stop _her_ from telling all she knew," he added harshly.
Biscuits tall and light as bread can be she found, covered neatly with a cloth.
You've maybe saved my life, Miss Hunter, if you only knew it." She watched him as he rode away, opening the gate and letting himself through without dismounting.
He jumped the fence and got away on me, day before yesterday.
You're all just like these rabbits out in the sage.
Al stared back into her eyes.
He was always "line-riding," or hunting stray stock--horses, usually--or striking across to some line-camp of the Sawtooth, on business which he was perfectly willing to state.
"We try to prove Fred was murdered, and what's the result?
When they passed Lorraine, the horse nearest her shied against the other and was sworn at parenthetically for a fool.
Lorraine looked at the steep bank to the right, knew instinctively that Yellowjacket would never have time to climb it before the team was upon them, and urged him to a lope.
"By golly, Lone, you would do that, too, if you kill somebody," he began in a new tone,--the tone which Lorraine had heard indistinctly in the bunk-house when Swan was talking to the doctor.
You think it all out--but maybe I've been thinking too.
"Backwards?" Swan led up the blaze-faced horse and pointed to the right stirrup.
She was raving crazy, and in her rambling talk she said something about Frank Johnson having died last night." Lone glanced back as he led the way through the gate which Swan was holding open.
Al would kill you as easy as you kill coyotes.
"I guess maybe you're lost.
Swan, however, was not troubling himself over what Lone would think, or even what Warfield was thinking.
Just now he remembered picking up the empty one and shaking it over the potatoes futilely and then changing it for the full one.
He wound in and out among the trees and boulders, stepping carefully over fallen logs; he thrust his nose out straight and laid back his ears and pushed his way through thickets of young pines; he went circumspectly along the edge of a deep gulch, climbed over a ridge and worked his way down the precipitous slope on the farther side, made his way around a thick clump of spruces and stopped in a little, grassy glade no bigger than a city lot, but with a spring gurgling somewhere near.
Brit's worked himself up into a fever, and I didn't dare tell him she wasn't with me.
"I won't be a nuisance, dad--really, I won't," she said.
So my mother sends a telephone to this doctor in Shoshone, and he comes.
She was nervously careful about choosing her steps so that she would not stumble and jolt her father.
=THE FLYING U'S LAST STAND= What happened when a company of school teachers and farmers encamped on the grounds of the Flying U Ranch.
But one wheeled suddenly and came galloping toward them, stopped when he was quite close, ducked and went thundering past to the head of the field.
"If Fred don't ride backwards, I bet he don't get killed--like that." "Where's Brit now?" Lone asked, getting up and putting on his hat.
"It's him, tagging along, I reckon." "Oh," said Hawkins.
"Pretty quick now we get you fixed up good," Swan told him cheerfully.
The station agent stood with his hands on his hips and watched her cross the track and start down the road, pardonably astonished to see a young woman walk down a road that led only to the hills twenty miles away, carrying her luggage exactly as if her trip was a matter of a block or two at most.
It was just after the "Terror of the Range" was finished that a great revulsion in the management of this particular company stopped production with a stunning completeness that left actors and actresses feeling very much as if the studio roof had fallen upon them.
Warfield rose stiffly from the one-sided warmth of the fire and walked a few paces to meet him, shrugging his wide shoulders at the cold and rubbing his thigh muscles that protested against movement.
Lorraine thereby earned enough money to buy her fall suit and coat and cheap furs, and learned to ride a horse at a gallop and to dance what passed in pictures as a "square dance." At nineteen years of age Lorraine Hunter, daughter of old Brit Hunter of the TJ up-and-down, became a real "range-bred girl" with a real Stetson hat of her own, a green corduroy riding skirt, gray flannel shirt, brilliant neckerchief, boots and spurs.
Now don't worry, my good woman.
"I'll drive the team and you can ride him home, or he can be tied on behind the wagon." "He won't lead," Brit objected.
It's for her good that I'm thinking." Jim stepped out of the doorway and came slowly toward them, eyeing the two from the Sawtooth curiously while he chewed tobacco.
And all the while he had let Al Woodruff ride free and unsuspected.
You're going to do it, or I'll kill you." Lorraine gazed at him fascinated, too astonished to attempt any move toward escape.
"Put your other hand on the saddle horn," he directed.
It was as if she had told him that Frank was in some terrible danger,--yet she had merely complained that he was late.
Al crawled after her, his eyes pleading.
"I could lick you good," he admitted in a stage whisper.
"Where's your authority, Swan?" Swan lifted the rifle to a comfortable, firing position, the muzzle pointing straight at Lone's chest.
Twenty yards she covered when a bullet sang over her head.
But he was too sorry for her to be amused at the vagaries of her sick brain.
But she thought she understood.
Determined still to attend strictly to his own affairs, his thoughts persisted in playing truant and in straying to a subject he much preferred not to think of at all.
Then he went calmly to work cooking their supper.
Lone's anxiety he did not even consider.
We simply _can't_ let that murder go and not do anything.
He reached for his receivers, ducked his head and adjusted them with one hand, and sent a call spitting tiny blue sparks from the key under his fingers.
Brit should look at that chain on his wheel before he starts down that road." "Oh.
Aren't you envious as sin, and glad they're so happy?
Lorraine tried to scream that the man on the ground would be trampled, but something went wrong with her voice, so that she could only whisper.
When she had gone a few rods, however, she began to call him Charlie and to criticize the direction of the picture.
The look had made him wince, though he could not quite decide what it was that displeased her.
I don't want you talking to Lone or anybody else about that outfit, Raine.
"I'd _kill_!--if that would help dad." Swan was folding his coat very carefully and placing it under Brit's head.
It's a shame, poor thing.
That car might easily be only Bob Warfield on some errand of no importance.
I'll show you." Without a word Lone dismounted and followed Swan into a small shed beside the stable, where a worn stock saddle hung suspended from a crosspiece, a rawhide string looped over the horn.
"That is on the front part," he said.
They wanted to eliminate her, and they had made the blunder of working independently to that end.
Lorraine said nothing until Al, riding at a lope, passed the field at the mouth of Spirit Canyon where the blaze-faced roan still fed with the others.
"Do I get a free hand, or don't I?" he insisted.
He gets it through the law that you was talking about a little while ago.
His hands rested on his hips, his thumbs hooked inside his overalls; a gawky pose that fitted well his colorless personality,--and left his right hand close to his six-shooter.
I'm just--_with_ yuh." "We--need yuh," said Brit grimly, looking Lone straight in the eyes.
At the post pile he unhitched the team for safety's sake and tied them to trees, where he fed them a little grain in nose bags.
I'm--oh, I'm afraid he's awfully injured!" "Yes-s--but how'n hell did a doctor know about it?" Sorry, the silent, blurted unexpectedly.
What you think, Lone?" "Hell, how should I know?" Lone scowled at him from the saddle and rode away, leaving Swan standing there staring after him.
"I ain't working now," he said, lowering his voice so that Lorraine could not hear.
His lips were pressed firmly together, as if he had definitely made up his mind to something.
"Who is this girl?" he asked.
"Swan, if it's serious enough for a doctor, can't you send another thought message to your mother?" she asked.
"And something else is damn funny, Lone." He lifted the wooden stirrup and touched with his finger the rowel marks.
Warfield," the man from Whisper said guardedly, urging his horse close to the machine that stood in the trail from Echo.
That's more than what I'd want to do." She did not answer that, but once on the doorstep Lorraine turned and faced him.
"Don't count your chickens till they're hatched," came facetiously out of the blue.
Another twenty thousand acres they had access to through the grace of the owners, and there was forest-reserve grazing besides, which the Sawtooth could have if it chose to pay the nominal rental sum.
You could do that, please?" "Sure," said Brit and rode over to where the sheriff was standing.
"To-night I can't talk with my mind," Swan told her bluntly.
BOWER * * * * * =THE RANCH AT THE WOLVERINE= A ringing tale full of exhilarating cowboy atmosphere, abundantly and absorbingly illustrating the outstanding feature of that alluring ranch life that is fast vanishing.--_Chicago Tribune_.
"How was that?" Lone asked, turning away to the stove.
A minute later she followed them inside, where Jim was lighting the lamp with shaking fingers.
Echo had disappeared as completely as if it had been swallowed.
I said then that somebody in the walley has died.
But his lips drew in to suppress a smile when he saw, from the corner of his eyes, that Lorraine was winding the alarm on the cheap kitchen clock, and that she set the hand carefully and took the clock with her to bed.
Came a time when she delivered a shrill-voiced, tear-blurred ultimatum to Brit.
It seems to me, Senator Warfield, that you are crazy yourself, to imagine that you can go on killing people and thinking you will never have to pay the penalty.
Anybody at Thurman's place, do you know?" Swan shook his head and started again down the winding, steep trail.
Half her burden seemed to slip from her shoulders while she looked at him.
She hated the narrow, half-lighted hallway with its "tree" where no one ever hung a hat, and the seat beneath where no one ever sat down.
I'm the man at Whisper.
"So I'm going to stay here and help see you through with this.
"I rode like hell," he stated heavily.
Lone and Lorraine told me they were trying to save him for the "Little Feller" to practise on when he is able to sit up without a cushion behind his back, and to hold something besides a rubber rattle.
You must _not_ go judging me by the palms and the bay windows of the Casa Grande.
After all, he was her dad, and his life had been hard.
But Brit did not deceive himself that they would remain passive.
"My brand is the TJ up-and-down.
Halfway through Rock City the footprints ended abruptly, and Lone turned back, riding down the trail at a lope.
I saw her the other day at the Quirt, and she more'n half recognized me.
He asked for you and Frank." Lorraine sat down and folded her arms on the oilcloth-covered table.
She would be expected to explain satisfactorily why she had left the real West for the mimic West of Hollywood.
"I'm no angel," he disclaimed modestly, "and most folks think I could be improved on a whole lot.
He's got enemies that would be glad of the chance to stir up trouble for him.
Lorraine had had enough of that road.
It's like the words go far away so I can't hear any more.
Lone stiffened in his chair, felt under his coat, and then got up with some deliberation and looked out of the window before he went to the door.
As he forged up the slope across the ridged lip of the canyon, his one immediate object was speed.
"The poor little kid!" he muttered, and with, a sudden impulse he turned and looked toward the rock behind which the horse had stood.
Go and set down." Lorraine did not know how much of his talk was truth, but she went and sat down by his saddle and began braiding her hair in two tight braids like a squaw.
"He'll stick around so as not to raise suspicion.
Well, you being a stranger, you would get all the worst of it.
I don't know of anything else that'd be liable to happen, unless----" "Unless what?" Lorraine prompted sharply.
He disappeared finally around a small spur of the hill, and Lorraine found her knees trembling under her.
We thought it best to ride after her, but there was some delay in getting started.
"I certainly think some one ought to.
"When you're married to me, you'll come mighty close to keeping your mouth shut about it." "I'll never marry you!
I hope you'll be very happy." "The kid don't want a papa; husbands are what means the most in her young life," chuckled the groom, restraining his bride when she would have risen from his knee.
It had occurred to him that Senator Warfield knew where Lorraine was at that minute, and that he might be showing this concern for the effect it would have on his hearers.
The bag was rather heavy and as she went on it became heavier.
Give her a good sweat, why don't you?" He reached the doorstep and then turned back to add, "She left a grip back somewhere along the road.
I figured if her dad got killed, she'd leave.
If he don't, then I'm making a mistake, and I'd like to be set right." "Somebody rode that horse," Swan meditated aloud.
Her glorious duty it was to ride madly through the little cow-town "set" to the post-office where the sheriff's posse lounged conspicuously, and there pull her horse to an abrupt stand and point excitedly to the distant hills.
I never shot one with bullets in, but I could.
Swan stopped and put out his hand to shake.
No, I could see they wanted to get off alone and hold a powwow.
"Where'd you see all that, Raine?" He moved to the table picked up his pipe and knocked out the ashes on the stove hearth.
The blaze-faced horse had been led farther away and tied to a cottonwood, where some one had thrown down a bundle of hay.
Lorraine did not stop to think of what she would find down there.
Don't let her see that you think anything is wrong--and don't say anything about us.
"The girl and the Swede got in the way when I tried to bump Brit off.
"You don't have to tell anything.
You don't believe, but that is no difference to his coming just the same." He brought the milk, poured off the creamy top into a pitcher, stirred it, and quietly insisted that she drink two glasses.
He never could have given her a home like that.
"It's a damn shame he had to go--like that." Swan glanced back at him, studied Lone's face for an instant and turned into a tributary gully where a stream trickled down over water-worn rocks.
Swan shouted and flung his arms, and the cattle ducked, turned and galloped awkwardly away.
Frank was anxious to get home as soon as he could.
She had a picture of the place on the stationery which Lorraine used when she wrote him.
I shall stay with your father to-night; not that it is necessary, but because I prefer daylight for the trip back to town.
"Bill Warfield, what I've got to say to _you_ won't take long.
Once she was past she began running, as if she were trying to outrun her thoughts.
Then with long strides that covered the ground as fast as a horse could do without loping, Swan headed as straight as might be for the Thurman ranch.
They would not be openly assailed,--Bill Warfield was an intelligent man.
A whimsical thought of Swan's telepathic miracle crossed his mind and was dismissed as an unseemly bit of foolery in a matter so grave as Lorraine's safety.
Why, yesterday she had been brought to such a pass of sheer loneliness that she had actually been driven to reading an old horse-doctor book!
You're not letting them----" "We're makin' out to live here--and we've been doin' it for twenty-five year," Brit told her, with a certain grim dignity.
"I wisht you'd go on up where we cut them last ones and git my sweater, Brit.
Clear over my head--I can carry a man in my hands.
Just because this was real, she kissed him again with the frank vigor of a child.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN LONE TAKES HIS STAND Lone Morgan, over at Elk Spring camp, was just sitting down to eat his midday meal when some one shouted outside.
She shook her head and would not look at him.
He swallows the hook," he commented to himself, and his good-natured grin was not brightening his face while he washed the dishes and tidied the cabin.
Mebby another of them heart-ballum cases of Bob's," hazarded Pop Bridgers, who read nothing unless it was printed on pink paper, and who refused to believe that any good could come out of a city.
Within three feet of her, his face toward her and his eyes agonizing to meet hers, he died.
She looked straight into Senator Warfield's face, her own full in the sunlight, so that, had there been a camera "shooting" the scene, her expression would have been fully revealed--though she did not realize all that.
"I don't see why you want to talk to me," Lorraine retorted, not in the least frightened at the gun, which was too much like her movie West to impress her much.
It was Caroline, looking very dejected but apparently unhurt, save for skinned patches here and there where she had rolled over rocks.
She claims you found her at Rock City.
I was not here when he died, and I have never seen this girl of Brit's who seems to worry you.
CHAPTER TWELVE THE QUIRT PARRIES THE FIRST BLOW A car with dimmed lights stood in front of the Quirt cabin when Swan drove around the last low ridge and down to the gate.
"Did you wish to speak about something?" she asked impersonally.
I want you to know things is pretty damn ticklish right now, and it's going to take careful steppin'." "Well, don't let your foot slip, Al," Senator Warfield warned him.
And how did that happen?
"He's too dead to care now how it happened--and it would only stir up trouble," he finally decided and turned his eyes away.
She had spoken of being deceived into thinking the place was the Sawtooth ranch until she had come into it and found it "just rocks." Then, he reasoned, the storm had broken, and her fright had held her there.
"I don't know as she done that, quite," he drawled humorously.
So there is no reason why you should sit up and wear yourself out.
Swan started and looked up at him, glanced at the empty hills on either side, and stopped still in the trail.
He picked up the lantern, stepped over the log sill and pulled the cupboard door into place again.
Far ahead she heard some one whistling a high, sweet melody which had the queer, minor strains of some old folk song.
She protested half-heartedly, but Swan only laughed.
I reckon he was dead when he hit the ground." CHAPTER FIFTEEN SWAN TRAILS A COYOTE At daybreak Swan was striding toward the place where Frank Johnson had been found.
He wanted to bring them into the open where he could fight with some show of winning.
She felt that he was talking merely to keep her from worrying, and she was fairly sick with anxiety and did not hear half of what he was saying.
No Western lead that _I_ ever saw would act like that.
With your pull you expect to get this smoothed over and hushed up, and have me at a hanging bee, and everything all right for Bill!
She crept on her knees to the slicker and seized one piece of bannock, crawled out of the firelight stealthily, then sprang to her feet and began running straight across the meadow toward Skinner.
They said the little ones aren't big enough to fight the Sawtooth, and they'd carry lead under their hides if they didn't leave.
This is kinda sudden, maybe, but that's the way the game runs, sometimes.
"You watch out now, Yack.
"You watch." For answer Jack thumped his tail on the dirt floor and sniffed the breeze, taking in his overlapping tongue while he did so.
Some horses in a corral, and pigs in a pen, and chickens.
As before, the dog trotted along, Lone riding close behind him and Swan striding after.
But Lorraine's fighting blood was up, and she could not waste time in weeping.
Halfway up the hill he left the road and took a narrow trail through the sage, a short-cut that would save him a couple of miles.
It's woods and wild country in a few miles, and plenty of places to hide, and good chances for getting out over the top of the divide.
At the same moment she heard the stroke of an axe over to the right of where the man was climbing.
I could take him on my back, but that is hurting him too much." He looked at her--through her, it seemed to Lorraine.
Lorraine looked at him also, but Al did not say anything to her or to the horse.
She watched the firelight dancing on Al's somber face, softening its hardness, making it almost wistful when he gazed thoughtfully into the coals.
"We may as well go in out of the mosquitoes," the doctor suggested.
She heard some animal squall in the woods behind them.
Lone was pouring the coffee, and he ran Swan's cup over before he noticed what he was doing.
She came here, I suppose, because she had been here before.
We'll look after Frank." Already Swan and Sorry and Jim were lifting Frank's limp form from the rear of the wagon.
Don't talk to him no more, if he comes here when I'm gone." He put out a hand, beckoning her to him, sorry for his harshness.
He said somebody telephoned there was a man hurt in a runaway.
Britton Hunter by sight he ceased to exist so far as Lorraine was concerned.
As for the girl, she was safe at the ranch for the day, probably.
I think I could find the bush--it was where a rabbit was sitting--but he's probably gone by this time.
"I rode over to see if there's anything I can do," he said, when Lorraine opened the door to him.
He looked again at Lorraine.
Don't be afraid to speak frankly; it is rather amazing but not at all impossible, as I can testify.
And I did, for awhile.
Lorraine, unable to get up and run, too sturdy of soul to faint, had rolled over and away from him, her lips held tightly together, her eyes wide with horror.
You will also see that Brit Hunter had reasons for believing that the business of ranching in the Sawtooth country might be classed as extra hazardous, and for saying that it took nerve just to hang on.
They were close to the trail, where no one could pass without their knowledge.
"Is there any truth in her declaring that Frank Johnson is dead?
She hated the conflicting odors that seeped into the atmosphere at certain hours of the day.
She would be having beaux after awhile when she got acquainted, he supposed.
I do not feel the need of a papa, thank you.
It is more than probable that Senator Warfield would never have known to a certainty that Al was responsible for Thurman's death, if Al had not been worried over the Quirt's possible knowledge of the crime and anxious to know just how far his power might go.
The one stupid thing, in Swan's opinion, which he had not done was to let Lone go on holding his tongue.
"I THINK AL WOODRUFF'S GOT HER" 233 XIX.
But you are not to accuse Lone of being a jealous husband.
"It may be that the girl's dementia is some curable nervous disorder, and you know what an injustice it would be if it became noised around that the girl is crazy.
"I'd like to lie to you," Lone told Lorraine, speaking over his shoulder.
Something must have happened to the brake.
He took his coat, folded it compactly and pushed it under her head for a pillow; then he brought her own saddle blanket and spread it over her for extra warmth.
"We followed the girl's horse-tracks almost to Thurman's place and lost the trail there." Warfield turned in the saddle to look at Lone riding behind him.
She wasn't home, though." Senator Warfield seemed unmoved by this bit of news, wherefore Al returned to the main issue.
Swan, I don't know what to make of it.
But Al did not say anything.
"Brit Hunter's daughter--they say." "They _say_?
I can go to town right away, if I can borrow a horse.
With her galloped strong men whose faces limned the features of her favorite Western "lead." That for all her three years of intermittent intimacy with a disillusioning world of mimicry, her dreams were pure romance, proved that Lorraine had still the unclouded innocence of her girlhood unspoiled.
The man's ingenuity seemed endless.
Crazy young women would hardly be expected to carry a camping outfit.
"We ought to have some hot drink, or whisky, when we find that girl," Hawkins muttered unexpectedly, riding up beside Lone as they crossed an open space.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN THE SAWTOOTH SHOWS ITS HAND In her fictitious West Lorraine had long since come to look upon violence as a synonym for picturesqueness; murder and mystery were inevitably an accompaniment of chaps and spurs.
Brown hats are getting to be the style.
She had had her burdens, and she had borne them with more patience than many an older woman would have done, but what she thought of those burdens she did not say.
They ain't got any evidence whatever, unless she saw me at Rock City that night." He turned and looked again toward the two men down on the road and tilted his mouth down at the corners in a sour grin.
"Do you think I'm a damn fool, just because I'm a Swede?
"Yuh know what he's figuring on doing?
That is why Al rode oblivious to his surroundings, meditating no doubt upon the best means of preserving the "integrity" of the Sawtooth and at the same time soothing effectively the ticklishness of the situation of which he had complained.
I heard the shot fired, and I saw him start to fall off his horse.
It's a white cat over there that comes to meet me and rubs my leg and purrs like it's lonesome.
She seemed to remember certain landmarks, and would point them out to her companions and whisper a desultory lecture on the cattle industry as illustrated by the picture.
We do need some one to go to town for things.
If you want him for a husband, mother, that is entirely your own affair.
So I think you're the killer, and I keep on thinking that, and I've been trying to catch you with evidence.
"I would like it if you say somebody rides to get the doctor," he hinted quietly.
"Just Lone Morgan, and he thought I was crazy and imagined it.
That the cabin contained two rooms was the result of circumstances rather than design.
But it's true, what something tells me in my brain.
She ate bannock with her meat and secretly thought what an adventure it would be if only it were not real,--if only she were not threatened with a forced marriage to this man.
She lay down on the cot in the farther corner of the kitchen where her father had slept just last night--it seemed so long ago!--and almost immediately, as her senses recorded it, bright sunlight was shining into the room.
By hard riding along short cuts, Lone reached the Quirt ranch and dropped reins at the doorstep, not much past mid-afternoon.
He did not swear it to himself; he had no need.
He did not send them money, because he seemed never to have any money to send, and because they did not ask for any.
One man, for instance, had fallen over a ledge and broken his neck, presumably while drunk.
At the Sawtooth ranch, after she was able to be up, she had seen cowboys, but they had lacked the dash and the picturesque costuming of the West she knew.
You seen some good riding, I bet.
"S.V." Swan had a code, but codes require a little time in the composition of a message, and time was the one thing he could not waste.
The dog'll tell you all about it in about two minutes if you give him a chance." Swan looked at him.
How long ago Brit had been hurled into the canyon Lone did not know; he had not asked.
Damn yuh, what d'yuh want that you expect to get?" Warfield stared at him, slack-jawed.
Has she been unbalanced for long?" "If you mean Lorraine Hunter, she was all right last time I saw her, and that was last night." Lone's eyes narrowed a little as he watched the two.
But he thinks more of catching Al than he does of helping Raine." He looked up and saw that already Swan was halfway up the canyon's steep side, making his way through the brush with more speed than Lone could have shown on foot in the open, unless he ran.
Adventure, picturesqueness, even romance, are recognized and appreciated only at a distance.
He guessed wrong this time." Lone's eyes narrowed while he looked Swan over.
Next the rock he discovered a boot track, evidently made when the rider dismounted.
It was long past noon, and she was terribly hungry and very thirsty, but she would not tell Al her wants if she starved.
He wanted to be sure that help had started and to be able to estimate within an hour or two the probable time of its arrival, before he left the wireless.
But Caroline kicked my horse down off the road, and I only saw him a minute--but it _must_ have been dad.
He was curious but--I only said I knew him because he was wearing a brown hat, and the man that shot Mr.
Brit sometimes added that he had never been cut out for a married man, anyway.
The little cow-town "set" was being torn down to make room for something else quite different.
"But since it did happen, I must rely upon you to--to--er----" "I guess I understand," Al grinned sardonically.
The horse looked up, stared and went galloping down the little valley, stampeding the others with him.
I'll bet he's been watching this place since daybreak." "Where he goes, Yack will follow," Swan grinned cheerfully.
He seemed to be watching her covertly, yet she failed to catch any telltale admiration for her in his scrutiny.
There's no need to bother him about it.
And, dad, I believe it was that man at Whisper.
She looked up at the stars,--millions of them, and brighter than she had ever seen them before.
"If he's breathin' I can't tell it on him." "He's got to be breathing!" Lone declared with a suppressed fierceness that made them all look at him.
He had grown up with the settled conviction that other men's quarrels did not concern him so long as he was not directly involved, and that what did not concern him he had no right to discuss.
Warned by the twinkling lights far behind her--lights which must be the small part at last visible of Echo, Idaho--Lorraine went on.
Only this bunch don't talk at all.
Before she had finished the braiding, Al came over to the saddle and untied his slicker roll and the grouse.
And try as he would, he could not see the object of so foolish a plan as this abduction carried out in collusion with two men of unknown sentiments in the party.
And Lone was drawing a map of the trails and showing me how far it was from the canyon to the Sawtooth ranch.
She hoped that dad had a good cook.
"Don't the Sawtooth _own_ this country?
She was so absorbed in trying to construct a range war or something equally thrilling from the scrap of conversation she had heard that she reached the hilltop in what seemed a very few minutes of climbing.
Indeed, he suspected that any man in the country would have done that.
"I'll tell dad what you said," she told him, glancing back over her shoulder.
And as for taking them out on location and making all those storm scenes without telling them in advance so that they could have dry clothes afterwards, she thought it a perfect outrage!
An' that team ain't a runaway team.
Lone swung off and went up to her guardedly, not knowing just what an insane woman might do when cornered.
There was nothing to do but wait, yet waiting seemed to her the one thing she could not do.
The meaty part he larded neatly with strips of bacon, using his hunting knife,--which Lorraine watched fascinatedly, wondering if it had ever taken the life of a man.
Lorraine walked slowly past the bunk-house with her face turned from it and her thoughts dwelling terrifiedly upon what lay within.
All this took time, especially since Caroline, the brown mare, would rather travel ten miles straight ahead than go backward ten feet.
He took no orders save such general ones as Senator Warfield had just given him.
Keep your gun handy," he murmured and turned away as the others rode up, eager for whatever news Swan had to offer.
True, it had the straggling row of square-fronted, one-story buildings, with hitch rails, but the signs painted across the fronts were absolutely common.
But for that I could shoot you quick as a coyote.
Birds called companionably from the high branches above them.
=RIM O' THE WORLD= An engrossing tale of a ranch-feud between "gun-fighters" in Idaho.
But she could not bring herself to the point of facing the curiosity and the petty gossip of the studios.
"Well," he said carefully at last, "if you're falling down in your work, what are you whining about it to me for?
Bill Warfield was Senator Warfield, and Senator Warfield was a power in the political world that immediately surrounded him.
As they climbed higher, she could catch glimpses of the road down which her father had driven almost to his death.
"Now you won't mind, mother, when I tell you that I am going to dad's ranch in Idaho.
He said his own hat was gray." Brit stared at her, his jaw sagging a little, his eyes growing vacant with the thoughts he hid deep in his mind.
I want to know how things is going on this ranch.
The hills looked farther away than when she started.
"Lone isn't back, either." "He ain't?
She'd have made it, too, if it hadn't been for the storm.
"It rained," she muttered confusedly.
He looked back at her appraisingly, saw her glare of hatred and grinned at it, while he touched his horse with the spurs and rode away, leading Snake behind him.
Just that he wanted to see me?" "He--talked a little," Lorraine admitted, her eyebrows pulled down.
Send men to Bear Top Pass, intercept man with young woman, or come to rescue if he don't cross.
He was so quiet, and so reassuring in his quiet.
I believe if you'd put that dog on the trail----" "If I put that dog on the trail he stays on the trail all day, maybe," Swan averred with some pride.
She's got to be taken care of." Warfield gave him another sharp scrutiny and rode on.
And why don't you _do_ something?
At eighteen she knew definitely that she hated the very name Casa Grande.
The doctor smiled no more that evening.
Their disappearance slumped her spirits again, for without them she was no more than a solitary speck in the vast loneliness.
The horse he rode was the horse he loved, the horse he talked to like a pal when they were by themselves.
"The Sawtooth would hate to lose you; you're a good man." "Oh, I get yuh," Al retorted.
But sometimes I been--like I _feel_ something." He stared at Lone questioningly.
With Lone rode bitterness of soul and a sick fear that had nothing to do with his own destiny.
They reached the spot where the team had stopped of its own accord in crossing a little, green meadow, and had gone to feeding.
"Broke loose and run off again," he said, as he took down his rope and widened the loop.
When she was twelve she told her playmates exciting tales about rattlesnakes.
She had ridden once with Frank Johnson to look through a bunch of cattle, but it had been nothing more than a hot, thirsty, dull ride, with a wind that blew her hat off in spite of pins and tied veil, and with a companion who spoke only when he was spoken to and then as briefly as possible.
I said she was with me, and the sun was too much for her, and she sent him word that Jim would take care of him awhile longer.
The boys were too busy to run in any horses, her father had told her shortly when she reminded him of his promise.
What you say, Lone?" "You might drift around by there if it ain't too much out of your way, and see if he's got a man on the ranch," Lone suggested.
I don't want to make a show of myself.
I'm going to demand that justice shall be measured out to you.
"I'll bet it's one of Bob's girls, come trailin' him up.
He was a murderer; he had undoubtedly killed many men.
She made her father comfortable, chattered aimlessly to combat her understanding of his moody silence, and listened and waited and tried her pitiful best not to think that anything could be wrong.
Snake's plumb safe, so yuh got no call to worry about him.
I'm not going to stay on this ranch all alone.
He had wanted to make Lone talk, had hoped for a weakening and a confession.
"This here gun's kinda techy, anyway, unless you're used to a quick trigger.
She felt that Swan knew it, else he would have talked of her dad, would at least have tried to reassure her.
You figured I'd resist arrest, and you'd have a chance to shoot me down.
"What-all happened to Brit Hunter?" Swan, with his plate filled and his coffee well sweetened, proceeded to relate with much detail the story of Brit's misfortune.
"Nobody but a dang fool would fight." Slow anger grew within him.
You stick with them, Loney, and find out.
Frank stopped and gave him a lift, and he used the rock first chance he got.
"That's a damn funny place for blood, when a man is dragging on the ground," he commented drily.
Lone backed away, dismounted, and, stepping carefully, went close.
Lone had forged ahead on John Doe, and Swan stopped suddenly, pointing to the spot where a few bloody feathers and a boot-print showed.
A sanitarium may be able to restore her to a normal condition.
Where'd he go?" Lorraine came to the bedside and, lifting Brit's head carefully, arranged the pillow as she knew he liked it.
I'm thinking about what's best for you, this time." "I'm terribly grateful," Lorraine laughed.
Jim and Sorry had taken orders all their life, and they would not be able to handle the ranch work alone; yet how else would it be done?
By golly, I'm scared for that girl, Loney!" Lone stared at him.
He led his horse down the side of the ridge opposite the road and the house, mounted there and rode away after Lorraine, keeping parallel with the trail but never using it, as was his habit.
I can see that it wouldn't make me awfully popular." Then she sobered.
"You look like the frontispiece in that horse-doctor book," she remarked, eyeing him with disfavor.
"Yeller's all right if you make up your mind to a few failin's.
And you can't say, 'Here, I know the Sawtooth had a hand in that.' You got to _prove_ it!
"And he'd try to shut the mouths of others----" "If he cared anything about them, he would.
Two weeks he had been sick, and his temper had not sweetened with the pain of his broken bones and the enforced idleness.
And the Quirt's beginning to think it can get away with most anything.
Now he blamed himself for Frank's death.
Bower knows the West of the cowboys, as do few writers to-day....
They did well to hang on and continue living in that country.
She might have wondered if that was what she saw.
Al knew well the art of concealing his movements and his proximity from the inquisitive eyes of another man's saddle horse, and Snake had no more suspicion than his rider that they were not altogether alone that morning.
Yet the TJ up-and-down herd never seemed to increase beyond a niggardly three hundred or so, though the Quirt ranch was older than its lordly neighbors, the Sawtooth Cattle Company, who numbered their cattle by tens of thousands and whose riders must have strings of fifteen horses apiece to keep them going; older too than many a modest ranch that had flourished awhile and had finished as line-camps of the Sawtooth when the Sawtooth bought ranch and brand for a lump sum that looked big to the rancher, who immediately departed to make himself a new home elsewhere: older than others which had somehow gone to pieces when the rancher died or went to the penitentiary under the stigma of a long sentence as a cattle thief.
He was letting himself down through the manhole in the stable loft when Swan's voice, lowered almost to a whisper, startled him.
Hawkins and his wife would swear away her sanity if they were told to do it, and there were witnesses in plenty who had heard him call her crazy that first morning.
"Mind your own business and let other folks do the same," had been the family slogan in Lone's home.
Why, he didn't even want to ride home with me, that day.
He said he had traded for that one, just yesterday.
There was a light, too, in Lone's eyes that had not been there before.
Jim and Sorry, the two unpicturesque cowboys of whom Lorraine had complained to the cat had already departed with pick and shovel to their unromantic task of digging post holes.
I guess Thurman was living alone.
She stared at him, hating to read the emotion in his heavy face that she had always thought so utterly void of feeling.
To his unimaginative mind there was sufficient justification in that attitude.
Swan and Hawkins came up and waited with him, and Jim opened the door of the bunk-house and looked out at them without showing enough interest to come forward and speak to them.
Later she saw two tiny, glowing points down by the corral and knew that Sorry and Jim were down there, waiting and listening, ready to do whatever was needed of them; although what that would be she could not even conjecture.
For that matter she frequently wondered what there was in life for any of them, shut into that deadly monotony of sagebrush and rocks interspersed with little, grassy meadows where the cattle fed listlessly.
I am a member of the Sierra Club in Los Angeles.
Caroline was standing up, all right.
The Sawtooth's too slick for that.
They may have been law-abiding citizens riding home to families that were waiting supper for them, but Lorraine crept out from behind her sagebush, sneezing and thanking her imitation of the jack rabbits.
I'm a reliable man, and I've rode with a rope around my neck for over five years, and Warfield offered me the same old five hundred every time I monkeyed with the water supply as ordered.
Frank proved up and came down to live with him, and the partnership began to wear into permanency.
So you took me to the wrong one, and I was a week there before I found it out.
Ostensibly he was in charge of the camp at Whisper, a place far enough off the beaten trails to free him from chance visitors.
Brit opened his eyes and looked at Swan, and from him to Lorraine, but he did not say anything.
Lorraine's breakfast was in the oven, keeping warm.
She seemed in no hurry to ride on, which gave Lone courage.
"I'm going to the ranch, and if you'd like a ride, I'll lend you my horse.
Oh, by the way, Swan "proved up" as soon as possible on his homestead and sold out to the Quirt.
I had a gray one, but it didn't suit me.
Ten steps from the horse Lone stopped short, staring.
"She might, and lead that horse she was on." "She wouldn't know enough.
He made his way along the side hill to where his horse was tied to a bush, mounted and rode away with his mind pretty much at ease.
It's you, is it, Lone?" she exclaimed, when she neared the vague figure of a man unsaddling a horse.
But he hoped she wouldn't go off and get married the first thing she did,--and one good way to prevent that, he reasoned, was to make her comfortable with him.
It was evident that his thoughts had pulled away from something that meant a good deal to him.
Already the dusk was painting deep shadows in the woods across the opening, and turning the sky a darker blue.
Frank Johnson had the horses saddled and it was time to go, yet Brit lingered, uneasily conscious that his habitation was lacking in many things which a beautiful young woman might consider absolute necessities.
And that horse--going down the road dragging---- "You'd better get some one to double for me in this scene," she said irrelevantly.
There were other boulders near which offered more shelter from rain.
"D'yuh think me and Frank could fight the Sawtooth and get anything out of it but a coffin apiece, maybe?" he demanded harshly.
They could do it; they could have her committed to an asylum, or at least to a sanitarium.
She hated every detail of this crude housekeeping, from the chipped enamel dishpan to the broom that was all one-sided, and the pillow slips which were nothing more nor less than sugar sacks.
And he said there were lots of brown hats in the country.
Swan might have some plan of his own,--an ambush, possibly.
Jack picked up the trail where the horseman had walked away toward the road, and Swan followed him, motioning Lone to ride ahead.
If it's going to be hands off, I want to know it.
She felt that Senator Warfield would never dare to carry out his covert threat, once she reached home.
They would probably talk to Lone without reserve,--Swan counted on that.
"She's out of her head--or she was when I found her.
His aerial was cleverly camouflaged between the two pine trees, and he had no fear of discovery there; Jack was a faithful guardian and would give warning if any one approached the place.
It was that horse----" Brit turned his face to the wall as if no more was to be said on the subject.
She meant to carry it slung across her shoulder on a stick as soon as she was well away from the prying eyes of Echo's inhabitants.
SWAN CALLS FOR HELP 245 XX.
"Fred Thurman tried to fight the Sawtooth over a water right he owned and they wanted.
LONE ADVISES SILENCE 68 VII.
They'd want to make me tell where dad kept his gold or whatever it was they wanted, and they'd have me tied to a chair--and then, cut to Lone Morgan (that's a perfectly _wonderful_ name for the lead!) hearing shots and coming on a dead run to the rescue." She picked up the cat and walked slowly down the hard-trodden path to the stable.
If she was a mind to wait over a day or two, he said, he might maybe be able to make the trip.
She remembered that accident and permitted Snake to descend Granite Ridge at a walk, which was fortunate, since it gave the horse a chance to recover a little from the strain of the terrific pace at which she had ridden him that morning.
She hated the row of key-and-mail boxes on the wall, with the bell buttons above each apartment number.
That's what the law is paid to do.
"I could send my thought to my mother.
Lone, can you come and help?" "The Swede and me'll both help," Lone volunteered.
"You ain't hurt, and you ain't going to be as long as you gentle down and behave yourself." She saw him draw the slicker over his shoulders and move back where the shadows were deep and she could not see him.
He slumped down into his chair and leaned forward, his arms resting on his knees, his fingers clasped loosely.
Or do you think she was crazy?" Lone met Warfield's eyes fairly.
A DEATH "BY ACCIDENT" 54 VI.
Swan had learned something of these friends of the Sawtooth, and he could guess pretty accurately how far some of them would go in their service.
"Why did you let me give myself away to that man?
Hunter?" CHAPTER SIX LONE ADVISES SILENCE Twice in the next week Lone found an excuse for riding over to the Sawtooth.
And yesterday morning the girl played into my hands.
It ain't far." They returned to the rocky hillside where the trail had been covered, and searched here and there for the tracks of another horse; found the trail and followed it easily enough to Whisper.
It was terribly real, the way that team was fleeing down the grade.
They never act according to logic or reason, and it is impossible to make any deductions as to their probable movements." Lone nodded, not daring to trust his tongue with speech just then.
The cupboard swung toward him bodily, end slabs and all.
How are we going to make a stretcher?
"I've wondered since--but I was sure, too, that I had seen it.
"The man that struck that horse--do you know that man?" he asked, all the good nature gone from his voice.
Yellowjacket had thereupon walked a few rods farther and stopped, patiently indifferent to the location of his oats box.
But Al might not give her another chance like this.
She couldn't have gone far, he reasoned, and if she had been out all night in the rain, with no better shelter than Rock City afforded, she would need help,--"and lots of it, and pretty darn quick," he added to John Doe, which was the ambiguous name of his horse.
It was a long trail to Sugar Spring, and from there up Spirit Canyon the climb was so tedious and steep that Brit took a full hour for the trip, resting the team often because they were soft from the new grass diet and sweated easily.
I'm in this thing now, and you'll have to count me, same as you count Jim and Sorry.
They haven't got her yet." "They're in the house," Swan reassured Lone.
"Don't get the wrong idea again, Swan.
He had believed that he had the Sawtooth killer under observation, and he had been watching and waiting for evidence that would impress a grand jury.
There was no longer the rattle of the wagon coming down the trail, the sharp staccato of pounding hoofs.
But don't go telling--all yuh know and some besides.
It may have been the difference in the sound of the wagon and the impact of the horses' hoofs on the rocky trail.
Who is it?" "F-frank," Lorraine stammered, backing away from him.
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE "I COULDA LOVED THIS LITTLE GIRL" A chill wind that hurried over Bear Top ahead of the dawn brought Swan and Jack clattering up the trail that dipped into Spirit Canyon.
Why should she feed her imagination upon a mimic West, when the great, glorious real West was there?
He must be alive; they would surely have heard of his death, for she and Royal were his sole heirs, and his partner would have their address.
His horse traveled easily, now and then lifting a foot high to avoid rock or exposed root, or swerving sharply around obstacles too high to step over.
"They weren't talking about you, then.
And if she did that, there was nowhere to go and nothing to do when she arrived there.
Dad, would an innocent man--one that didn't have anything to do with a crime--would he try to cover it up afterwards?" Brit's hand shook when he removed the pipe from his mouth and laid it on the table.
"From here on she couldn't turn back without meeting us--if I remember this country correctly.
Where's Jim and Sorry, then?" "Oh, they've had their supper and gone to the bunk-house.
Still, that beaten road must lead somewhere.
I am here to discover what you are going to do about it?" Her eyes were flashing, her chest was rising and falling rapidly when she had finished.
Swan looked at Lone, and Lone went forward to meet them.
CHAPTER FOUR "SHE'S A GOOD GIRL WHEN SHE AIN'T CRAZY" When the sun has been up just long enough to take the before-dawn chill from the air without having swallowed all the diamonds that spangle bush and twig and grass-blade after a night's soaking rain, it is good to ride over the hills of Idaho and feel oneself a king,--and never mind the crown and the scepter.
More than ever the integrity of the Sawtooth Cattle Company must be preserved, since it has come out openly as a backer of the irrigation company.
After a little he tilted his head and looked up at her.
It was not Frank Johnson, but Swan Vjolmar who climbed limberly down from the seat without speaking and turned toward the back of the wagon.
All this was a matter of habit, bred of Lone's youth in the feud country, and had nothing whatever to do with his conscience.
Lorraine looked over to where Snake, too exhausted to eat, stood with drooping head and all four legs braced like sticks under him.
I said she's all tired out and sick and wanted to stay up by the spring awhile, where it's cool.
"But nothing happened," he added, "unless maybe she saw him ride out and go on down the road.
Brit showed the letter to Frank, and the two talked it over solemnly while they sat on inverted feed buckets beside the stable, facing the unearthly beauty of a cloud-piled Idaho sunset.
How much English does that Swede know?" "Not any more than he needs to get along on," Lone answered, instinctively on guard.
Swan was coming slowly from the bunk-house, buttoning his coat.
"She's a right nice little girl, and she's pretty darn sick." He touched John Doe with the spurs and rode away, stopping at the foreman's gate to finish his business with Hawkins.
"Are you a Sawtooth man?" she demanded suddenly, looking up at Swan defiantly.
Virginia had taught him that a man must not be curious about the personal belongings of a woman.
She like to of had pneumonia, I guess.
Some one asked about Yellowjacket, having, I suppose, a sneaking regard for his infirmities.
She moved farther away from him.
I could do that, Miss, but I should not like it if people knew that I did it.
He--he _tolerates_ my presence, Ket!
"I hope you'll both be very happy indeed," said Lorraine gravely.
Let's go on to Whisper.
"Better you send to Echo for telegraph.
Then, with Jack, it would be a simple matter to follow Warfield to where he overtook Al,--supposing he did overtake him.
"I can't," he said shortly.
She lay in her bed shaking with nervous dread, and the shrill rasping of the crickets and tree-toads was unendurable.
They could do just what they had talked of doing.
"Food I am thinking of, Miss," he grinned at her.
Warfield did not suggest separating, though Lone expected him to do so, since one man on a trail was as good as three in a search of this kind.
But Lorraine suspected shrewdly that he scarcely made a living for himself, and that he was home-hunting in more ways than one when he came to visit her mother.
To Lorraine that passive submission was the most intolerable part, the one thing she could not, would not endure.
Her father she could not see, nor the other horse, nor the wagon.
He made no attempt to overtake her, and not once did Lorraine glimpse him or suspect that she was being followed.
When she could see again she glimpsed him running, while something bounced along on the ground beside him.
"You don't have to lie," Swan informed him bluntly.
Lone Morgan lied to me.
Yellowjacket is safe, but--but you have real _live_ horses on the ranch, haven't you?
I think he takes that girl up Spirit Canyon, maybe.
You've been with us five years, Lone, and it's suited you all right so far----" Lone looked at him.
They hired two men, cut what hay they could from a field which they irrigated, fed their cattle through the cold weather, watched them zealously through the summer, and managed to ship enough beef each fall to pay their grocery bill and their men's wages and have a balance sufficient to buy what clothes they needed, and perhaps pay a doctor if one of them fell ill.
Al regarded her in silence for a minute, led Snake to his own horse, mounted and rode on.
It was just straight, heart-breaking tragedy, that had its sordid side too.
"Better if you leave the horses here," he suggested.
In fact," he added dryly, "my presence here ought to settle any doubt of that.
She was investigating a pot of beans when Swan came in.
It was like his pretense of weariness on the long carry down the canyon, she thought.
It was his business to find the best means.
Why, even last night I woke up shivering, just imagining it all over again." "It was sure horrible the way you talked about it," Lone assured her.
"These days, when politics is played by the big fellows, and the law is used to make money for 'em, it takes nerve just to hang on," he said.
Like you know something talks to you and then quits." Lone gave Swan a long, measuring look, and Swan laughed uneasily.
"Yes, we got a sheriff, and we got a jail, and a judge--all the makin's of law.
But I ain't going to let the man go that paid me my wages and a bonus of five hundred dollars for every man I killed that he wanted outa the way.
I was nervous after that man was here, and I did go." "I didn't want you riding around the country unless I knew where you went," Brit said.
You're too game and too square.
What become of the horses?" "Why--they're over there yet.
"How do you know a doctor will come?" she asked Swan suddenly, when they were resting with the Thurman ranch in view half a mile below them.
Now he turned the purse over, tried to rub out the stiffness of the leather, and smiled a little as he dropped it back into his pocket.
That jong lady's horse maybe smells these horse and makes a noise, and crazy folks run from noise." Without objection the three dismounted and tied their horses securely to trees.
He waited another hour and made a mental inventory of everything in camp while he waited.
Later, when the outside world had crept a little closer to their wilderness--as, go where you will, the outside world has a way of doing--he had built a lean-to shed against the cabin from what lumber there was left after building a cowshed against the log barn.
In the small lavatory of the depot waiting room she exchanged her slippers for a pair of moderately low-heeled shoes which she had at the last minute of packing tucked into her suitcase, put a few extra articles into her rather smart traveling bag, left the suitcase in the telegraph office and started.
"You goin' after them posts, or shall I?" he inquired glumly, which, by the way, was his normal tone.
He had seen Lorraine start on several leisurely, purposeless rides, and her changed manner held a significance which he did not attempt to belittle.
They sent me a snap-shot of the event, but it is not very good.
Lorraine had never before been really angry with her father.
"It makes me feel damn sorry when I go to that ranch.
You've got him wrong." "Maybe, but he kills like a coward would kill, and he's scared he will be caught.
you find that jong lady quick!" From there on Swan walked carefully, putting his foot wherever a print of Al's boot was visible.
"He has a sufficient number, however.
She whirled Snake on his hind feet, struck him sharply with the quirt and was galloping back over the trail past the Hawkins house before Senator Warfield had finished advising Hawkins.
In a week Brit wrote a brief, matter-of-fact letter to Minnie and enclosed a much-worn ten-dollar banknote.
"--and as I says time and again, they ain't big enough to fight the outfit, and the quicker they git out the less lead they'll carry under their hides when they do go.
"You better go to bed," he told her stolidly.
He went stiffly, reluctantly, pulling back until his head was held straight out before him.
Your man went to Whisper; I'll bank money on that.
It isn't safe, is it?" "It's safe," said Lone pityingly.
"Lone says I should tell the sheriff I could look after Fred Thurman's ranch.
But I reckon that's mostly scare, from being lost all night.
This needed Quirt Creek for accessible water, and Quirt Creek, save where it ran through cut-bank hills, was fenced within the section and a half of the TJ up-and-down.
They lost none of their spirit, however, and when the road was steepest nagged at each other with head-shakings and bared teeth, and ducked against each other in pretended fright at every unusual rock or bush.
Another had bought a few sticks of dynamite to open up a spring on his ranch, and at the inquest which followed the jury had returned a verdict of "death caused by being blown up by the accidental discharge of dynamite." A sheepman was struck by lightning, according to the coroner, and his widow had been glad to sell ranch and sheep very cheaply to the Sawtooth and return to her relatives in Montana.
We forgot all about the horses, I think.
She poured Jim's coffee and went on her tiptoes to see if her father still slept.
Just as if he were engaged in an everyday proceeding, he walked around Snake and tied Lorraine's right foot; then, to prevent her from foolishly throwing herself from the horse and getting hurt, he tied the stirrups together under the horse's belly.
We aren't quitters, are we, dad?
She was listening at the door when Swan appeared unexpectedly before her, having walked over from the Thurman ranch after doing the chores.
He'll make a good horse." Al had not seen the bay, and the talk tapered off desultorily to a final "So-long, see yuh later." Lone rode on, careful not to look back.
"It don't go down with me.
I--I think he was taller than you.
But if you'll feel that I can be a help instead of a handicap, that's what I want.
When do you want to go?" "Right now, as soon as I'm ready.
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO "YACK, I LICK YOU GOOD IF YOU BARK" Swan cooked himself a hasty meal while he studied the various possibilities of the case and waited for further word from headquarters.
She had often spoken to her mother about the vulgarity of arguing in public with the tenants, but her mother never seemed to see things as Lorraine saw them.
It's on my land--the Quirt's got a right to fence every foot of land that belongs to 'em." All the way over the ridge and across the flat and up the steep, narrow road along the edge of Spirit Canyon, Brit dwelt upon the probable moves of the Sawtooth.
If you saw what I done to Fred Thurman, what do you reckon I'd do to _you_?" He looked at her for a minute, shrugged his shoulders and rode on, crossing the creek and taking a trail which Lorraine did not know.
Ket, what do you do to pass away the time?
Lorraine sent him over the trail at a pace which Jim had long since reserved for emergencies.
He saw me there, perhaps.
Yet it was important that he should go; he must return the girl's purse!
That sends us away around by Three Creek.
I'm going to stay with you." Then she saw tears spilling over Brit's eyelids and left the room hurriedly, fighting back a storm of weeping.
Frank he mourned for and seldom mentioned.
You believe that?" "It most generally works out that way," Lone admitted, getting another plate and cup from the cupboard, which was merely a box nailed with its bottom to the wall, and a flour sack tacked across the front for a curtain.
An open killing, one that would attract the attention of the outside world, might be avenged.
I'll ask her again about that grip she said she hid under a bush.
This, his manner said plainly, was first and foremost his affair, and from now on he would take charge of the situation.
"A sweat's awful good for a cold like she's got," he volunteered practically.
I didn't say all that.
"All you boys got a raise last month; ain't that good enough?" "Plenty good enough, so long as I work for the outfit." "Well, what's wrong?
"There has been," she said tensely, "another Sawtooth accident.
Swan took the saddle and swung it around so that the right side was toward them.
I want to see what the boss and Hawkins have got to say about this last 'accident.' Better come on down, Swan.
Brit was philosophical, thinking that a year or so of town life would be a cure.
She hated the jangling of the hall telephone, the scurrying to answer, the prodding of whichever bell button would summon the tenant asked for by the caller.
It seemed probable that she had left the grip at Rock City where she must have spent the night.
"I took a homestead up there and some day they will want to buy my place or they will want to make a fight with me to get the water.
Now and then he was balked when the hoofprints led him to the bank of Granite Creek, but not for long.
It wouldn't do any good to you or anybody else, and it might do a lot of harm." His eyes nicked her face with a wistful glance.
"I'm a son-off-a-gun all right--only I don't never get mad at somebody." Brit Hunter smiled at that, it was so like Swan Vjolmar.
Nor would he dare come to the cabin and finish the job he had begun.
Swan had no sooner climbed the gulch toward Thurman's claim than he proceeded to descend rather carefully to the bottom again, walk along on the rocks for some distance and climb to the ridge whose farther slope led down to Granite Creek.
But Hawkins would not question him further.
Old-timers forgot that Brit had ever been married, and late comers never heard of it.
Fresh horses for Al, food--perhaps even a cabin where he could hide Lorraine away--were to be expected from any one of them, once Al was over the divide.
He was hard, she decided, but he was not unnecessarily harsh; cruel, without being wantonly brutal.
Dumbly he sensed, as their handwriting and their spelling improved, that his children were growing up.
Far ahead loomed a cluster of square, black objects which must be the ranch buildings of the Quirt, and Lorraine's spirits lightened a little.
She could not believe that fate would permit Al Woodruff to carry out such a plan.
"I bet you Yack finds her in one-half an hour." With much unnecessary language, Senator Warfield told him to get to work, and the three tightened cinches, mounted their horses and prepared to follow Swan's lead.
But they could frame an insanity charge and put me--my God, what fiends they are!" At the Sawtooth, Senator Warfield was talking with Mrs.
=SKYRIDER= A cowboy who becomes an aviator is the hero of this new story of Western ranch life.
It is something damn funny about that chain, the way it's fixed." Lone did not ask him for particulars, as perhaps Swan expected.
I----" "Was she violent, before?" Senator Warfield asked Hawkins in an undertone which Lorraine heard distinctly.
Where do they go when it rains?
"You better come clean, Swan, and tell the whole thing.
"Well--in stories--but it was reasonable and logical and possible, just the same.
But you look after things--what's your name?
I'd like to catch him up again.
Thurman had a brown hat.
To all intents the owners of the Quirt outfit were old bachelors who kept pretty much to themselves, went to town only when they needed supplies, rode old, narrow-fork saddles and grinned scornfully at "swell-forks" and "buckin'-rolls," and listened to all the range gossip without adding so much as an opinion.
It is because--your father he is not like other men in this country.
Lone, or--Frank?" "Why--who is what?" Lorraine parried awkwardly.
At the farther end of Skyline Meadow he stopped, took a tough leather leash from his pocket and fastened it to Jack's collar.
For love of a girl, she had been taught to believe, the worst outlaw would weep over his past misdeeds, straighten his shoulders, look to heaven for help and become a self-sacrificing hero for whom audiences might be counted upon to shed furtive tears.
What you think, Lone?" "_Me_?
"I can't say that comedy hide you've got improves your appearance.
Lorraine wandered around the cabin, which was no larger than her father's place.
"_Walk_?" The stableman stopped chewing and stared at her.
I know my limit--you've got me dead to rights.
He took off his coat and spread it over the head and shoulders of the dead man, weighted the edges with rocks and rode away.
"Now folks, lemme just tell you a few little things.
"It'd be a good thing if you had some neighbor woman come in and stay with yuh," he said slowly.
"If you get balky, I'm liable to get rough." Lorraine drew away from him as far as she could and looked at him for a full minute.
"You're in such a hurry this morning that I thought the only way to get a chance to talk to you was to hold you up," he said, in much the same tone he had used that day at the ranch.
I'm good climber like a sheep," he boasted, and whistling to Jack, he began working his way up a rough, brush-scattered ledge to the slope above.
Lorraine had washed the dishes and was tidying the room and looking at her father now and then in a troubled, questioning way of which Brit was quite oblivious.
"I could ask you to take a look on my shoulder, if you please.
"I'll fix yuh so you can sleep--and that's about all yuh can do." He went over to his saddle, took the blanket and unfolded it until Lorraine saw that it was a full-size bed blanket of heavy gray wool.
That's what it looks like on Yellowjacket." Brit did not answer, and when Lorraine was sure that he did not mean to do so, she asked another question.
Lone whistled softly to himself while he studied this new angle of the problem,--for a problem he was beginning to consider it.
I don't eat it or smoke it ever in my life." His voice was very Swedish, which was fortunate, because Senator Warfield appeared softly behind him and went into the house.
"Her father--if he is her father--is sick and not able to take care of her.
The revealed brilliance became swift sword-thrusts of blinding light that seemed to stab deep the earth.
It made Lone afraid she was crazy.
Swan would locate Warfield and lead him straight to Al Woodruff, and then make his arrests.
Their house was a two-room log cabin, built when logs were easier to get than lumber.
They seemed to look upon the doings of the Sawtooth as an act of Providence, like being struck by lightning or freezing to death, as men sometimes did in that country.
He set the four chairs in a row against the wall, swept up the bits of bark and ashes beside the stove, made sure that the water bucket was standing full on its bench beside the door, sent another critical glance around the room, and tiptoed over to the dish cupboard and let down the flowered calico curtain that had been looped up over a nail for convenience.
"I don't hunt over that way for maybe a week.
It was when he was riding slowly around the boulder marked "Palace Hotel, Rates Reasnible," that he came upon the place where a horse had stood, on the side best sheltered from the storm.
Swan counted forty men,--he did not bother with the women.
They would wait, he thought, until the fence was completed and they had made a trail around through the lava rocks.
He would not shoot _her_,--he would not dare.
It's my work to hunt, like it's your work to ride." He had swung into the trail ahead of John Doe and was walking with long strides,--the tallest, straightest, limberest young Swede in all the country.
You couldn't hear it in that sand--not till he gits to the gate.
Beads of perspiration on his forehead had merged into tiny rivulets on his cheeks and dripped off his clean-lined, square jaw.
With a bannock stuffed into one pocket, a chunk of bacon in the other, he left the cabin and swung off again in that long, tireless stride of his, Jack following contentedly at his heels.
Bill Warfield never looked back, for Al's gun spoke, and Warfield sagged at the knees and the shoulders, and he slumped to the ground at the instant when Al's gun spoke again.
"What's on your mind, Swan?" he asked abruptly.
Swan, sitting on a rotting log, became uneasy at the fine target which Lone made by the fire, and drew Al Woodruff's blue bandanna from his pocket.
"You're crazier about hunting than I am." "Wet bushes," Swan corrected carelessly.
They just gobble and go." She went in then and shut the door with a slam.
He did not believe anything she had said, except that she had been coming to the ranch and had left her bag under a bush beside the road.
I carry me a bottle of water always in my pocket," said Swan, glancing up at her when she had reached them.
If you can do it, for heaven's sake go ahead!
It was soiled and shrunken with its wetting, and the clasp had flecks of rust upon it.
She could see how the Quirt ranch, with its water rights and its big, fertile meadows and its fences and silent disapprobation of the Sawtooth's methods, might be looked upon as an obstacle which they would be glad to remove.
Too well Lone understood the sinister meaning that probably lay behind that phrase.
You've made up your mind I'm the killer, and you've been fitting the evidence to me--or trying to." "It fits," Swan pointed out drily.
He walked on his boot-toes to the door of the second room of the cabin, listened there for a minute, heard no sound and took a tablet and pencil off another shelf littered with useless things.
Sorry," she cried suddenly, "what _is_ the matter with this place?
Al shook his horse into a shambling trot, picking his way carelessly through the scattered sage.
Throw that six-shooter over there in the brush, will you?" "I hate to get the barrel all sanded up," Lone objected mildly.
"If I had the evidence you're carrying in your pocket, Swan, I'd put that darn dog on the scent of the man, not the horse." "The man I've got," Swan retorted.
She was wired up pretty good, though, and there was more wire in the rig.
They had the case runnin' in court till they like to of took the last dollar he had.
Get water in the canal, sell land under a contract that lets him out if the ditch breaks, or something so he _can't_ supply water at any time.
With an effort he smiled his disarming, senatorial smile, but Al's next words froze it on his face.
She went out to the telephone in the hall, remembered suddenly that her business would be overheard by half the tenants, and decided to use the public telephone in a hotel farther down the street.
That is why he had his cabin up and was living in it before the Sawtooth discovered his presence.
You could tell the sheriff I'm government hunter and honest man, and I take good care of things.
"She's been telling her father----" Lone fell into bitter argument with himself.
He and Frank had lived together for so many years that his loyal heart ached with grief for that surly, faithful old partner of his.
Since she was here, it scarcely seemed worth while.
He heard the gist of the message repeated to him, told the man at the other station that lives were at stake, and threw off the current.
The ridge gave him a wide outlook to the four corners of the earth.
"Oh,--never mind--but get dad in.
I don't believe it, but I won't tell any one, if that's what you want." "If some neighbors should ask, 'How did that doctor come so quick?'----" "I'd rather lie and say I sent for him, than say that you or any one else sent a telepathic message.
Put out your hands, Lone.
Whenever Lorraine looked full into his face he would grin at her as though nothing was wrong, and when they came to a clear-running stream he emptied the water bottle, dipped up a little fresh water, added brandy, and lifted Brit's head very gently and gave him a drink.
"I'm quitting to-day." Hawkins stared and named the Biblical place of torment.
"You're soaking wet!" he exclaimed again.
He went up into the brush.
Too narrow in the brim.
I loaned her my horse, and she ain't back yet.
He won't hold out--he can't.
I'll go hunt it up, I reckon." He mounted John Doe and rode down to the corral, where two or three riders were killing time on various pretexts while they waited for details of Lone's adventure.
"At the ranch?" "Or heaven, maybe," Swan responded sententiously.
=THE PHANTOM HERD= Another western tale in which the Happy Family become real "movie" actors.
"Well--I dunno as anything would be liable to happen," he said uncomfortably.
Senator Warfield had then been plain Bill Warfield, manager of the outfit, who rode with his men and saw how his herds increased,--saw too how they might increase faster under certain conditions.
It sagged in their arms like a dead thing, and Lorraine stepped back shuddering as they passed her.
Then it turned away and seemed about to end abruptly on a flat outcropping of rock two miles from Whisper camp.
Her legacy of stubbornness set her lips firmly together.
Later, if she felt tired, she could easily hide it behind a bush along the road and send one of her father's cowboys after it.
She may harm herself, or----" Lorraine turned white.
Lone pulled up and half turned in the saddle, looking at Swan questioningly.
"If you stay around here long you'll see a good many," he said, taking off his hat and turning it on his hand before her.
The rooms were scrupulously clean--neater than the Quirt, she observed guiltily.
There's other places I'd rather live in, if the Quirt's going to raise talk about Fred Thurman." Senator Warfield pulled at his collar and tie as if they choked him.
She went fer a ride.
It's funny how hills make a road far around.
By the time Lorraine had bullied and cajoled him into making a somewhat circuitous route to the road, where he finally appeared some distance above the point of his descent, Brit was there, hitching the team to the wagon.
But when he thought of them they seemed remote, prattling youngsters whom Minnie was forever worrying over and who seemed to have been always under the heels of his horse, or under the wheels of his wagon, or playing with the pitchfork, or wandering off into the sage while he and their distracted mother searched for them.
He walked as fast as he could, but even so he could not travel the six miles to the ranch very quickly.
She watched him lay them tips up for a mattress, and was secretly glad that she knew this much at least of camp comfort.
"There's too much that isn't talked about, on this ranch.
Al at first displayed no intention of stopping, but pulled up when he saw John Doe slowing down significantly.
There's blood----' And that's all.
There had been nothing in Lone's later life to convince him that minding his own business was not a very good habit.
Brit's careful about them things--little men most always are.
Brit could not imagine himself actually _living_, day after day, in a town.
They decided to sell an unbroken colt that a cow-puncher fancied.
We're all human beings, dad; we have to talk sometimes.
"You must have been out all night," he said.
Lorraine ducked, stumbled and fell headfirst over a hummock, not quite sure that she had not been shot.
She had heard of such things, she had even read a little on the subject, but it had never seemed to her a practical means of communicating.
I go and look, and by golly, it's there just like the words tell me." Lone straightened in the saddle.
He said that since he was a little boy they could talk together with their thoughts, but people laughed and some called them crazy, so that now he did not like to have somebody know that he could do it.
She said she was coming here, so I brought her on.
Jack looked up at his master, looked at the cattle and took his place at Swan's heels.
"She wouldn't get far, up this way." "There's the track of two horses," Hawkins said abruptly.
He was trailing Al Woodruff, and when he found him,--that might be the end of Swan.
He untied her ankles from the stirrups and her hands from the saddle horn, carried her in his arms to his own horse and compelled her to mount.
"Of course, if they begin throwing fences across our stock trails and peddling gossip, that is another story.
I rode over to see your father.
Hawkins while her husband saddled two horses.
They can't----" He checked himself.
Behind her she heard the chuck-chuck of the loaded wagon.
If she did take a ride later on, it would probably be up the ridge between the Quirt and Thurman's ranch, and sit for an hour or so just looking.
Yellowjacket's instinct for direction had not been working that day, however.
"I don't have to trail him." "Well, now, you _think_ you've got him.
They went carefully around the thicket, guided by the pungent odor of burning pine wood, and halted so abruptly that Swan and Lone bumped into them from behind.
I been pushing him right through--not knowing there was a town trip ahead of him." Lorraine found her eyes going misty.
I--I feel kinda responsible for you; I'm the one that found you." Lorraine's eyes twinkled.
"I--I saw a man with a brown hat----" He laughed suddenly.
I've saw 'em in the movin' pitchers----" Lorraine blushed, and was thankful that her dad had not watched her work in that serial.
I ain't complaining about that; a man in my game expects to get his, some day.
But their voices and their manner of speaking had been rough; and it is one thing, Lorraine reflected, to mingle with made-up villains--even to be waylaid and kidnapped and tied to trees and threatened with death--but it is quite different to accost rough-speaking men in the dark when you know that they are not being rough to suit the director of the scene.
When Lorraine and Al were overtaken, then Lone would need to show the stuff that was in him.
CHAPTER TWO THE ENCHANTMENT OF LONG DISTANCE Lorraine Hunter always maintained that she was a Western girl.
For certain personal reasons there was no real neighborliness between the Quirt and the Sawtooth.
What did he say he wanted to see me about?" "He didn't say.
About noon Swan approached the crowd of men and a few women who stood at a little distance and whispered together, with their faces averted from the body around which the men stood grouped.
What was it to this man where she had been lost?
Without the dog they never would have guessed that any one had passed this way, but as it was they made good progress and reached the nearest edge of the spruce thicket just as the sun was making ready to push up over the skyline.
Every blow made Lorraine wince, and she made the wincing perfectly apparent to Al, in the hope that he would take some notice of it and give her a chance to tell him what she thought of him without opening the conversation herself.
"I'd about as soon go that way as the way I am now." Swan watched him until he was seated on the rock as directed, his manacled hands resting on his knees, his face turned toward the horses.
Lorraine observed that Swan himself ate very little, bolting down a biscuit in great mouthfuls while he carried a mattress and blankets out to spread in the wagon.
Al's glance went on to Snake, and from him to Lorraine.
Swan closed the gate behind him with steady hands.
She's been scared, I guess, but she ain't gone hungry, and she ain't suffered, except in her mind.
And something says in my head, 'It's a lie.
In the apartment sat a man who had been too frequent a visitor, as Lorraine judged him.
It was the other horse that Jack had been trailing so long.
If she did get a chance to run, she thought, she did not want her hair flying loose to catch on bushes and briars.
Up above Sugar Spring was timber.
While Warfield was speaking, she had a swift vision of the evidence they could bring against her; how she had arrived there delirious after having walked out from Echo,--why, they would call even that a symptom of insanity!
He had been watching Lone, had been baffled by Lone's consistent kindness toward the Quirt, by the force of his personality which held none of the elements of cold-blooded murder.
Lorraine wondered why, until he had lifted her father and placed him on the stretcher and placed the loop over his own head and under one arm, as a ploughman holds the reins, so that his hands may be free.
I don't _know_ so much, Swan, but I'm pretty good at guessing.
"She's been left alone a week or two at a time during roundups.
He let them stand there and wait while he unsaddled Snake, put a drag rope on him and led him to the best grazing.
Fred Thurman had been one; a "bull-headed cuss" who had the temerity to fight back when the Sawtooth calmly laid claim to the first water rights to Granite Creek, having bought it, they said, with the placer claim of an old miner who had prospected along the headwaters of Granite at the base of Bear Top.
"You don't mean to tell me, dad, that you and Frank Johnson and Lone Morgan and--everybody in the country are _cowards_, do you?" Brit looked at her patiently.
Al yanked hard on the bridle reins, then rode back and struck him sharply with his quirt before Snake would rouse himself enough to move forward.
"He'd no business to start down if his rough-lock wasn't all right," he said.
She started this way, and she should have been here some time ago.
She was Brit Hunter's girl, and she had told them at the Sawtooth that she had spent the night at Rock City.
If you and Hawkins rode on home, I'd keep on hunting till I located her.
"My mother says she would send a doctor quick," he replied hesitatingly.
Nothing--_nothing_ must be permitted to stand in the way." He removed his thin driving cap and wiped his perspiring forehead.
Both shoulders were sore from the weight of the bag on the stick, but the sagebushes looked so exactly alike that she feared she could not describe the particular spot where the cowboys would find her bag, wherefore she carried it still.
When he saw the team coming, away back toward Echo, he rode down into that wash and tied his horse.
"You stay as long as you like, Swan.
And here I've thought all my life that cowgirls did nothing but ride around and warn people about stage holdups and everything!
She'd have married me, too.
One bark, and I lick you good!" Jack flashed out a pink tongue and licked his master's chin to show how little he was worried over the threat, and went racing along at the end of the leash, taking Swan's trail and his own back to where they had climbed out of the canyon.
She went to her end of the stretcher and waited there while Swan put the rope over his head.
He notified the operator that he would not be there to receive anything else, until he returned to report that he had got his men.
Just how far was it justifiable to mind his own business?
He lied--he lied!" She hugged the cat impulsively and rubbed her cheek absently against it, so that it began purring immediately.
It worked better than the last one, when my father was sent over the grade into Spirit Canyon.
"We've still got a few head uh stock left--enough to live on.
One man hold off a hunderd with his gun--and on the other hand, a hunderd men, mebby, ridin' hell-whoopin' after one.
If the man successfully dodged the sheriff and made his way to parts unknown, the Sawtooth could shrug its shoulders and wash its hands of him.
He did not want to be reminded too sharply of Fred Thurman as a man who had lived his life in his own way and had died so horribly.
He believed that Lone would be equal to any immediate emergency and would do whatever the circumstances seemed to require of him.
Then the horses acted up, and I couldn't see him after Yellowjacket jumped off the road." Brit lay staring up at the ceiling, apparently unheeding her explanation.
They neared a sharp turn, and it took all her strength to pull her horse to the inside and save him from plunging off down the canyon's side.
You acted funny, that day Fred Thurman was killed, and you gave yourself away at the stable when I showed you that saddle.
As to his reason for coming, he referred them to Mr.
Lots of folks go outa their heads and talk crazy when they get a touch of fever, and they get over it again." "Let's have a fair understanding," Warfield insisted.
The State will also throw open the land it had withdrawn from settlement, pending the floating of this canal project.
I think there was another horse somewhere close to that outcropping, tied to a bush, maybe.
She gave Snake a kick in the ribs, but Al checked the horse's first start and Snake was too tired to dispute a command to stand still.
And then, Doctor, I'd like to talk to you, if you don't mind." She watched them retreat to the bunk-house together, Swan's big form towering above the doctor's slighter figure.
His face had turned gray while Lorraine watched him fearfully.
If Warfield had felt any doubt of Lone's loyalty he appeared to have dismissed it from his mind, for he sent Lone to the stable to search there, while he and Hawkins went into the house.
Here he turned north and shook his horse into a trot.
She had thought and thought until it seemed to her that she knew exactly how and why the killer's plans had gone awry.
"I don't know such a hell of a lot about heart-balm ladies, Bob.
"I _hate_ a country where horrible things happen under the surface and the top is just gray and quiet and so dull it makes you want to scream.
They paid _me_ for that end of the business.
He did not want her to talk about Fred Thurman.
Frank came tiptoeing out of the room where Brit lay bandaged and unconscious and stood close to Lorraine, looking down at her solemnly.
Al, he believed, was making for Bear Top Pass.
And there's medicine for dad's bruises in the house.
He did not speak at all for awhile, but presently pushed back his plate as if his appetite were gone.
"What you seen--what you say you seen--that was done at night when there wasn't no audience.
The three of them waited,--five of them, since Jim and Sorry had come up, anxious to hear the doctor's opinion and anything else pertaining to the affair.
The rabbit had moved, but I sort of remembered how the road had looked along there, and we hunted until we discovered the place.
They'd all have to die some day, anyway.
Think he'll pull through?" The doctor himself, coming up just then, answered the question.
Lorraine found herself in a sleeping bag from which she had small hope of extricating herself.
"And I'm behind yuh with a gun.
She's down with a cold, Mrs.
"L'raine, d'you know you've got a new papa?" her mother called out in the peculiar, chirpy tone she used when she was exuberantly happy.
But if they know where she is, they're acting damn queer, Swan.
Not until she had reached and had touched the first grotesque caricature of habitation did she wholly grasp the fact that she was lost, and that shelter might be miles away.
In a little while I will come back." He started off without waiting to see what Lorraine would have to say about it, and with some misgivings she watched him run down to the canyon's bottom and go forging up the opposite side with a most amazing speed and certainty.
What they want to try an' hang on for, beats me.
Lorraine had seen anemic young men all her life, and the last three years had made her perfectly familiar with that look in a young man's eyes.
He seemed to be listening, Lorraine thought.
He knelt beside her, folded the blanket over her from the two sides, and tied the corners around her neck snugly, the knot at the back.
They expected she'd be at the Quirt." "I think Al Woodruff, he's maybe got her, then," Swan declared, after studying the matter briefly.
There were many such, for the Sawtooth, powerful and stern against outlawry, tolerated no pilfering from their thousands.
"No, dad--but I thought I heard a wagon a little while ago.
That would sound more like a lie than a lie would.
And there is where he got the blow--_behind his ear_.
When she saw them finally, her father was being propped up in a half-sitting position, and the strange man was holding something to his lips.
What you think, Lone?" "It didn't, you say." Lone's eyes were turned to his coffee cup.
They ain't got my sympathy.
Hauser and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net [Illustration: Cover] THE QUIRT =By B.M.
"Dad," she said abruptly, "who is the man at Whisper?" Brit turned his eyes slowly to her face as if he had not grasped her meaning and was waiting for her to repeat the question.
He thinks I'm crazy this morning." "I reckon the team came on toward home after the fellow jumped out," Lone observed.
"Wel-ll--but I saw a man dragged, once.
"But if somebody is bleeding and falls off a horse slow, and catches hold of things and tries like hell to hang on----" He lifted the small flap that covered the cinch ring and revealed a reddish, flaked stain.
When he came back to her his voice was lower, his manner intangibly furtive.
"I--I can shoot a gun.
You can tell him I called, and that I'll call again." Still he did not go, and Lorraine waited.
"I never knew Brit Hunter had a girl." "Nor me," Al said and sifted tobacco into a cigarette paper.
"Oh, I could _kill_ you!" cried Lorraine for the second time that day and threw herself down on the bed, sobbing like an angry child.
Do _you_ believe that girl actually saw a man shot?
"The Quirt has made no trouble," he said.
"There's something I'd like to say," he began, groping for words that would make his meaning plain without telling too much.
But if a Sawtooth man were known to have committed violence, the Sawtooth itself was the first to put the sheriff on his trail.
His blue eyes clouded with anxiety and he fumbled the adjustments, coaxing the current into perfect action before he called again.
At the outset he was not, perhaps, more unscrupulous than some of his neighbors.
"But my dog Yack, he don't howl yet.
Lorraine knew that he was running senselessly, that he might leave the trail at any bend and go rolling into the canyon.
Cowboys in overalls and blue gingham shirts and faded old coats whose lapels lay in wrinkles and whose pockets were torn down at the corners!
He reached into his coat pocket and pulled out a round leather purse with a chain handle.
"They're fiends!" she cried aloud once, while she urged Snake up the slope of Granite Ridge.
She searched the bushes, looked under the wagon, and called and called.
He's late." Lone was lifting the saddle off the back of John Doe, which he had bought from the Sawtooth because he was fond of the horse.
"If yuh feel like you want a gun----" Lorraine laughed bitterly.
That dog is something queer about it.
They did not wear chaps, either, and their spurs were just spurs, without so much as a silver concho anywhere.
He was a fair mark for an enemy who might be lurking out there in the dark, but he gave no sign that he realized the danger of his position.
Swan hooked a finger over the nail that held a cracked cup and glanced over his shoulder at Jack, sitting in the doorway with his keen nose to the world.
Outside, the palm leaves were dripping in the night fog that had swept soggily in from the ocean.
What'd I want 'em fur?
But that was all,--since Al was at that moment trailing Lorraine toward the Sawtooth.
They stared curiously at the little procession, snorted and started to run, heads and tails held high.
He offered sympathy, assistance in the turning off of the gas, and a kiss which was perfectly audible to Lorraine in the next room.
It was impossible to get two coherent sentences out of the girl." Senator Warfield rode through just behind Lone and reined close, lowering his voice.
"My God, that girl mustn't tell that to any one else!" he exclaimed apprehensively.
"Can't you see now tired he is?" Al glanced at her from under his eyebrows.
Since I came here two men have been killed and my father has been nearly killed.
More often they buy milk in small tin cans, butter in "squares," and do without eggs.
At the bottom Swan spoke to the dog in an undertone, and Jack obediently started up the canyon on the trail of the five horses who had passed that way since noon.
She broiled the grouse carefully and ate it, with the exception of one leg, which she surprised herself by offering to Al, who was picking the bones of his own share down to the last shred of meat.
Wherefore he did not go near the foreman's house that day, but contented himself with gathering from Pop's talk that the girl was still there.
She had seen many a man whip pistol from holster and dare a mob with lips drawn back in a wolfish grin over his white, even teeth, and kidnappings were the inevitable accompaniment of youth and beauty.
What harm could it do to tell?
"Wasn't that him?" Sorry repeated uneasily.
Jim and Sorry were sent to look after Brit, who was still shouting vain threats against the Sawtooth, and the three men rode away together.
His motive for marrying her was rather mystifying.
"Sorry, you don't mean--Sawtooth accidents?" she blurted.
"Of course it must be looked after right away.
He would kill her if she attempted to escape--"and he could not catch me," Lorraine was just enough to add.
Lorraine heard them as she rode old Yellowjacket puffing up the grade, following the wagon marks, and knew that she was nearing the end of her journey,--for which Yellowjacket, she supposed, would be thankful.
Once the dog Jack swung off the trail into the brush, and Swan followed him while Lone stopped and awaited the result.
"He's hurt pretty bad," Swan declared honestly, looking up at her with his eyes grown serious.
At the bend she looked down, saw the marks where the wagon had gone over, scraping rocks and bushes from its path.
He could not deny her the privilege; she was young and she was, in Brit's opinion, the best looking girl he had ever seen, not even excepting Minnie, her mother.
"It's because you were sick, I reckon.
It's a right smart walk from here." Lone smiled, meaning to reassure her.
There wasn't a smell of it on his breath--I tell you now, boys, that he was lying in the sand between two sagebushes, on his face.
I worked hauling logs in the mountains, once.
I told her, when I took her, just what I was going to do with her.
He had for some days been planning a "settin' room and bedroom" for her.
From the corral Sorry and Jim came walking up the path to meet the wagon which was making straight for the bunk-house instead of going first to the stable.
"I've been thinking a lot about you lately.
But her mimic West had taught her that women sometimes dared where the men had hesitated.
For that matter, she hoped that Lone Morgan would never stray into a movie where any of her pictures were being shown.
They would not risk any move at present; they would wait and tacitly accept the fence, or pretend to accept it, as a natural inconvenience.
He did not seem sufficiently in love with her to warrant an abduction, and he was too cool for such a headlong action, unless driven by necessity.
But when they were halfway to Thurman's ranch--Brit on horseback and Swan striding easily along beside him, leading the blaze-faced horse, he glanced down at Swan's face and wondered if Swan had not lied a little.
I'll see what I can do in the way of a horse.
"Oh, Senator, it's awful to think of!
Lone would have preferred a chat with some one else, for this was a sharp-eyed, sharp-tongued man; but Al Woodruff stayed at the ranch and would know all the news, and even though he might give it an ill-natured twist, Lone would at least know what was going on.
He's cocker spaniel and bloodhound, and he knows things, that dog.
Al Woodruff had, and he was noted for his indifference to women and his implacable hardness toward men.
"Frank Johnson was killed, you say?
Lone managed to buy the Thurman ranch also, and the TJ up-and-down is on its feet again as a cattle ranch.
It's all of eighteen mile--I dunno but twenty, time y'get to the house." "I have frequently walked twenty-five or thirty miles.
She said a man was shot, and that she saw it happen.
Leastways, he'd have to keep his mouth shut," he said grimly.
She glanced back again, saw that the team was not running away, that they were trying to hold the wagon, and that it was gaining momentum in spite of them.
You haven't answered any of my questions, and you've made me feel as if you'd found a dangerous, wild woman that morning.
"Here I leave you," he volunteered, as Lone came abreast of him.
She hated the scrubby palms in front.
"You see if it does.
Two hours later she began to wonder why this particular road should be so unending and so empty.
Al pulled the bridle off Skinner, gave him a half-affectionate slap on the rump, and watched him go off, switching his tail and nosing the ground for a likable place to roll.
They had gone perhaps four miles when Lone turned, resting a hand on the cantle of his saddle while he looked back at Swan.
It had grown to be second nature,--and it had made him a good man for the Sawtooth Cattle Company to have on its pay roll.
"He seen me ride away from the ranch, this morning," he said.
I'll go listen for the wagon." "No use listenin'.
Swan's plan was to wait at the cabin until he knew that deputies were headed toward the Pass.
Get along there, Skinner!" Skinner got along in a businesslike way that told why Al Woodruff had chosen to ride him on this trip.
But it is difficult to speak of a person who hears what you are saying, and Swan was talking of everything, it seemed to her, except the man they were carrying.
"I've got a theory that somebody was in that wagon with Frank, and drove on a ways before he jumped out.
You understand?" "Yas, Ay know English pretty good.
She thought I was him, but she only talked to me friendly.
The most direct route to the Quirt took him down Juniper Ridge and across Granite Creek near the Thurman ranch.
Frank had driven to Echo and had not returned exactly on time, though a dozen things might have detained him.
Jim was at the ranch, Sorry had undoubtedly returned before now, and the coroner would probably not arrive before noon, at the earliest.
"Then I did tell----" "I just wanted to say," Lone interrupted her, "that I knew all the time it was just a nightmare.
It was Lone's haste, she told herself impatiently.
Lone turned off the trail and, picking his way around rough outcroppings of rock, and across unexpected little gullies, headed straight for the ford across Granite Creek and home.
She hadn't ever been in a real thunderstorm before, and she's scared of them.
Just put your foot in the stirrup--I'll help you up.
John Doe's gentle as a dog." "Just straight riding?" Lorraine considered the matter gravely.
He ain't--Sawtooth, but--he might let out----" "I know.
"He won't jump--he wouldn't jump--any more than I would," she chattered to herself, sick with fear for him, while she lashed her own horse to keep out of their way.
He dropped behind the two at the first rough bit of trail and felt stealthily to test the hanging of his six-shooter, which he might need in a hurry.
I thought they either hadn't seen her at all, or had got hold of her and were trying to square themselves on the insanity dodge.
"That's exactly what I mean.
"What yuh doing up there?" he wanted to know, looking up with some astonishment.
I feel as if something horrible was just ready to jump out at us all.
"That's about where I thought we'd wind up--in a saddle bunch," Lone observed disgustedly.
"We shall hurry, but it is not good to go hungry.
Say, you're a chancey bird, Swan, yelling from the brush, like that.
I reckon he's the man to take charge of things." "It's bad business, getting killed," Swan said vaguely.
But it would not have mattered greatly if he had heard, for this was a point quite thoroughly understood by them both.
You're the one who found her and took her in to the ranch, I believe.
She had told her dad that she wanted to fight with him, even though "fighting" in this case meant washing the coarse clothing of her father and Frank, scrubbing the rough, warped boards of the cabin floor, and frying ranch-cured bacon for every meal, and in making butter to sell, and counting the eggs every night and being careful to use only the cracked ones for cooking.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN YACK DON'T LIE For a time the trail seemed to lead toward Whisper.
Up to then everything was lovely, but Warfield began to crawfish a little.
Far to the north the Sawtooth range showed blue, the nearer mountains pansy purple where the pine trees stood, the foothills shaded delicately where canyons swept down to the gray plain.
He's smart, but you can beat anything with thinking if you don't stop thinking.
They'll set down an' slide but what they'll hold 'er.
Besides, they was friendly with Fred.
Bower is a valuable trade-mark.
She ain't altogether ignorant--she knows how to climb on a horse, anyway, and she kicked about having to ride sideways on account of her skirts.
His eyes had once or twice softened to friendliness, but love was not there.
She was seized with a reasonless, panicky fear that by the time she crossed the stream and climbed the hill beyond they would no longer be there where she had seen them.
One of them will stay with him then.
The sight heartened Lone a little.
She never realized how far she'd walked, I reckon.
That had been news to him--or had it?
"Why?" "A man came this morning, and said he was the man at Whisper, and that he would come again to see you." Brit took his pipe from his mouth, looked at it and crowded down the tobacco with a forefinger.
I'd like to find the grip--but I'm afraid that rabbit has done moved!" "Oh, Mr.
The girl was a raving maniac when she appeared at the Sawtooth.
He was so sure that Lorraine must be somewhere within a mile or two of the place that he seemed to think the search was practically over when Jack, nosing out the trail of Al Woodruff, went trotting toward Spirit Canyon.
He was a "Government hunter" and he had killed many coyotes and lynx and even a mountain lion or two.
We'll bring her back--don't you worry." "Well, take her away as quick as you can, Senator.
Well, you're the one that slipped, you damned, rotten coward.
"By golly, it's something funny about it.
She was riding past the team when Caroline humped her back and kicked viciously at Yellowjacket, who plunged straight down off the trail without waiting to see whether Caroline's aim was exact.
Lorraine stared after him wide-eyed, wondering and yet not daring to wonder.
Her dad was a querulous sick man absorbed by his sufferings and not yet out of danger, if she read the doctor's face aright.
Neither did he wear any air of expectancy.
"Swan would have been a help.
If it were not for the new stepfather, she would return to the Casa Grande, she told herself disgustedly.
And am I one of the outfit, dad?" "I guess so--only there ain't going to be any of this hell-whoopin' stuff, Raine.
Then she went on, feeling a bit less alone in the world.
It runs in the blood, I guess.
He seemed to feel that they were waiting for him and to know why.
If he were to protect Lorraine later on, he knew that he must not defend her now.
The coffeepot and the grouse he took in one hand--his left, Lorraine observed--and started toward the spring which she could hear gurgling in the shadows amongst the trees.
Wherefore it was a new Lorraine who rose at daybreak and silently cooked breakfast for the men, learned from Jim that Sorry was not back from Echo, and that Swan and Lone had gone down to the place where Frank had been found.
He gave her a telegram and a letter from the General Delivery.
"Well, I'm glad to know one person in the country who doesn't gabble his head off.
Lorraine saw him stand back and lift his quirt to slash the horse across the rump.
If she ever reached the top of the hill, she believed that she would see her father's ranch just beyond.
"If he wanted to _live_--in this country--he'd have to.
"I hope you do lay the evidence on the right doorstep." "I will," Swan promised, looking ahead to where Jack was nosing his way through the sagebrush.
And if you can't take his word for it, you can go look in the shack--but in that case Brit's liable to take a shot at yuh, Senator.
The girl, Lorraine--Minnie had wanted fancy names for the kids, and Brit apologized whenever he spoke of them, which was seldom--Lorraine had written that "Mamma has an apartment house." That had sounded prosperous, even at the beginning.
Lone had made it a point to mind his own business, always.
"Cor'ner comin'?" he asked, nodding at the two who were almost strangers to him.
Queer little red sparks squirmed and danced before her eyes.
You fix it." And he added whimsically, "Not so much tobacco, Lone.
"It may not be my affair, strictly speaking.
"No--I made him believe I wasn't there.
I know that one we had the other day like to of scared her into hysterics.
I know your rotten mind better than you do.
"Can't prove nothing--couldn't convict anybody if we could prove it.
I can't believe it's anything more than some nervous disorder.
And--oh, do you know how Lone is teaching the Little Feller to sit up on the floor?
"Now I want to tell you folks a few more things about Bill Warfield.
Won't you please feel that I'm one more in the game, dad, and not just another responsibility?
If one small fish now and then disappeared with mysterious abruptness, the other small fish would perhaps scurry here and there for a time, but few would leave the pool for the safe shallows beyond.
He seemed to be a perfectly dependable saddle horse for a bandit to own.
If Lone Morgan or any other man wanted to quit, that was his privilege,--providing, of course, that his leaving was not likely to menace the peace and security of the Sawtooth.
That her father had been sent down that grade with a brake deliberately made useless was a horrible thought which she could not put from her mind.
The rattle of the wagon must have been heard, for the door opened suddenly and Frank stood revealed in the yellow light of the kerosene lamp on the table within.
Warfield had probably decided that Lorraine would be less afraid of Lone than of them and had ordered him into the firelight as a sort of decoy.
They's a dead man laid out on this ranch.
We made the mistake of discussing her condition within her hearing, and it is possible that she understood enough of what we were saying to take alarm.
They called her "Raine." The other two men did not call her anything at all.
Hawkins standing in the door, staring at her, but she did not stop.
"No--I don't know--I saw him twice, by the lightning flashes.
Men always were, except directors who are paid for their incivility.
Here we are back again!'" he told the dog, pulling its ears affectionately.
We ought to find her without any trouble, much.
Does she know this country well?
But she could not stop; Yellowjacket had his ears laid back flat on his senseless head, and the bit clamped tight in his teeth.
Always, she had been accustomed to moderation in the pace and a slowed camera to speed up the action on the screen.
"Ket, you're the humanest thing I've seen since I left home," she said wistfully.
And marks on them old oxbow stirrups don't mean a damn thing but the need of a new pair, maybe." He forced a laugh and stepped outside the shed.
Half an hour after Swan arrived, the coroner came in a machine, and with him came the sheriff.
"Jim and Sorry can wait here for the coroner.
She tried to guess at his plans and at his motive for taking her away like this.
Who was the Sawtooth Company, that they could sweep human beings from their path so ruthlessly and never be called to account?
"I'm sorry this all happened--as it has turned out," he said, with real regret in his tone.
Warfield's got the sheriff in his pocket, and the cor'ner, and the judge, and the stock inspector--he's _Senator_ Warfield, and what he wants he gets.
To shoot a man just riding along---- It rained," she added plaintively.
You will see that Senator Warfield had every reason to be sincere when he called Al Woodruff a good man; good for the Sawtooth interests, that means.
Sliding, running, she followed the traces of the wreck to where the horse was standing.
You thought you'd make a grand-stand play with the law, and at the same time put me outa the way.
If she's been raving around like you say, she's in no shape to be riding these hills alone.
Nevertheless, the threat haunted her, made her glance often over her shoulder.
He thinks a woman's place is in the house--preferably the kitchen.
Lone might even think that she had some mental twist!
Rather, he sighted her in the trail, saw her duck in amongst the rocks and scattered brush of a small ravine, and spurred after her.
They were rocks, great, black, forbidding boulders standing there on a narrow ridge, having a diabolic likeness to houses.
Lone was turning back when John Doe threw up his head, stared up the creek for a moment and whinnied shrilly.
Say, Pop, she ain't no squaw--is she, Loney?" Sid Sterling remonstrated.
"'Taint likely him 'n' Brit 'd both have accidents--not right hand-runnin'." "_Accidents_?" Lorraine felt her throat squeeze together.
Brit wanted to make her as happy as he could, in his limited fashion.
Go look at my saddle.
The girl came to the ranch in such a condition that I was afraid she might do herself or some one else an injury.
Just have a room ready, so that she will be comfortable here until we can get her to a sanitarium.
Just stay on your horse--he can't run faster than a bullet, and I don't miss coyotes when I shoot them on the run." "The hell you say!" Lone stared at him.
He would wear a flour-sack apron, naturally, and would be tall and lean, or else very fat.
But when a man she had cooked breakfast for, had talked with just a few hours ago, lay dead in the bunk-house, she forgot that it was merely an expected incident of Western life.
But Lorraine and the telltale hoofprints by the rock compelled him to believe that it was not an accident.
Nobody but Fred Thurman, over here on Granite.
When the fence was done, maybe he could rustle her another horse,--and then he had added that he didn't see what ailed Yellowjacket, for all the riding she was likely to do.
She obeyed him silently, lifting the end of the stretcher and leading the way down to the canyon's bottom, where Swan assured her they could walk quite easily and would save many detours which the road above must take.
A dozen brands were recorded in the name of the Sawtooth Cattle Company, and if a small rancher found his calf crop shorter than it should be, he might think as he pleased, but he would have no tangible proof that his calves wore a Sawtooth brand.
I thought I'd be neighborly enough to ask what I could do for him, and he tried to kill me!" Lone merely grunted and gave Swan the tobacco.
That ride was beginning to be a habit of hers, Al had observed, so that he considered her accounted for also.
The tracks are that old." "They said they had trailed Raine this far, coming from the Sawtooth," Lone told him worriedly.
His sharp eyes went immediately to Brit's face, pallid under the leathery tan, his fingers went to Brit's hairy, corded wrist.
He seemed as fresh and unwinded as if he had gone no farther than the grove, and he wore, more than ever, his air of cheerful assurance.
"A little gentle exercise will prevent further trouble, I think." Whereupon he turned abruptly to the door of the other room, glanced in at Brit and beckoned Lorraine with an upraised finger.
"Just how would it make trouble for my father?" Lorraine asked at last.
His movements were those of an aging man,--yet Brit Hunter was not old, as age is reckoned.
It showed a man at the horse's head, holding it by the bridle.
"I could help your father very much," he said soberly, "but I should tell you a secret if I do that.
It's when I'm sitting down to eat my supper.
"What you think, Lone, if you be sitting down eating your supper, maybe, and you feel something say words in your brain?
One of us better take a look through that young stock in the lower field, too, and see if there's any more sign uh blackleg.
From Lone she had learned a good deal about the new irrigation project which lay very close to the Sawtooth's heart.
"I believe they'd kill me if they were sure they could get away with it.
This is to what you call a show-down." "We'll want the dog," Lone told him, but Swan shook his head.
Lone agreed with her, even though he did not know what she was talking about.
"You don't have to see why," he said.
Lone picked his way through the crooked defile that was marked MAIN STREET on the corner of the first huge boulder and came abruptly into the road.
And he--he wanted me to go on thinking it was just a nightmare--that I'd imagined the whole thing.
CHAPTER THREE REALITY IS WEIGHED AND FOUND WANTING Still dreaming her dreams, still featuring herself as the star of many adventures, Lorraine followed the brakeman out of the dusty day coach and down the car steps to the platform of the place called Echo, Idaho.
She's been sticking here on the job purty close.
We can't let her wander around the country in that condition.
Just tell them, young man, about your mother." Swan was the last to enter the kitchen, and he stood leaning against the closed door, turning his old hat round and round, his eyes going swiftly from face to face.
But I'm honest in one way.
Right here's where I rode up and caught the team, last night.
There isn't a woman on earth that won't sell a man's soul out of his body if she happens to think it's worth her while--and she can get away with it.
A doctor from Shoshone----" "A _doctor_?
He spread the blanket over them and then, without a word, came over to her and untied her feet.
"What girl?" Lone looked at him noncommittally.
He bought out small ranchers who were crowded to the selling point in one way or another.
Deep hoof marks closely overlapping, an over-turned stone here and there gave proof enough, and the rain-beaten soil that blurred the hoofprints farthest from the rock told him more.
Within five minutes Swan, hearing hoofbeats, looked out through a crack in the door and saw Lone riding at a gallop along the trail to Rock City.
"I just wanted you to know how things is building up.
Luckily, Brit had "proven up" on his homestead, so that when the irate Mrs.
There was nothing else in the house to read, except a half dozen old copies of the _Boise News_.
The wind whipped her narrow skirts and impeded her, tugged at her hat, tingled her nose and watered her eyes.
She would find some way to outwit him when it came to the point of marrying him, she thought.
She had even remarked that she could not understand how a rancher would ever want to build a board shack if there was any timber to be had.
She stared at him, her eyes wide and bright.
She told me she was going to the Sawtooth.
Lone thought her eyes were the most wonderful eyes--and the most terrible--that he had ever seen.
How dare you take that tone, Mr.
Could she, Hawkins?" "Not unless she turned off, up here a mile or two, into that gulch that heads into Skyline," said Hawkins.
He would be a comedy character, but she hoped he would not be the grouchy kind, which, though very funny when he rampages around on the screen, might be rather uncomfortable to meet when one is tired and hungry and out of sorts.
This is so you can walk fast.
Once down the other side he would find friends to lend him fresh horses.
They were coming down upon her at a sharp trot, stepping high, the wagon tongue thrust up between their heads as they tried to hold back the load.
It was not easy to talk to this silent man who was her father, but she had done a great deal of thinking during that long, empty day, and she had reached the point where she was afraid not to speak.
She was on the point of stepping out into the road again when a horseman rode into sight between the two rocks.
(The senator had quite unpleasant opinions of Swedes, and crazy women, and dogs that were never around when they were wanted, and he expressed them fluently.) Swan explained with a great deal of labor that he had not thought he was wanted, and that he had to sleep on his claim sometimes or the law would take it from him, maybe.
"Is that dog of yours any good at trailing?" he asked abruptly.
The way to catch a fox is to watch his den." He switched off the current, closed the case and went out, making sure that the cupboard-camouflaged door looked perfectly innocent on the outside.
He fastened the log chain to the rear wheels to brake the wagon on the long grade down the canyon, loaded the wagon with posts, bound them fast with a lighter chain he had brought for the purpose, ate his own lunch and decided that, since he had made fair time and would arrive home too early to do the chores and too late to start any other job, he would cruise farther up the mountain side and see what was the prospect of getting out logs enough for an addition to the cabin.
I thought a ride would do her good, mebby.
He was, in short, the strangest man she had ever seen.
I'm going to marry you, see, first.
Loney, you kick me good.
He had stayed three days when he had meant to finish his business in one, because there was an awfully nice girl waiting on table in the Palace, and because there was going to be a dance on Saturday night, and he wanted his acquaintance with her to develop to the point where he might ask her to go with him, and be reasonably certain of a favorable answer.
Sane or insane, she was in danger if Senator Warfield considered her of sufficient importance to bring him out on horseback to the Quirt ranch.
=THE UPHILL CLIMB= How a cowboy fought the hardest of all battles--a fight against himself.
I shall talk to my mother with my thoughts," he said, drawing a hand across his forehead and speaking in breathless gasps.
In the same instant of his appearance she heard the unmistakable crack of a gun, saw the rider jerk backward in the saddle, throw up one hand,--and then the darkness dropped between them.
"Blood is hard to find when it's raining all night," Swan observed, speaking low as one does in the presence of death.
But you make a big mistake if you don't think some one else may be using his brain, too.
Indeed, Swan eased that worry too, when they were climbing the pine slope where Al had killed the grouse.
Her world was reeling around her.
She wondered what he was thinking about as he rode.
"By golly, I don't see how he don't get killed," he finished, helping himself to another biscuit.
Indeed, I am very sure she would not.
Then he went back down the trail until he found the glove.
For the first half hour she believed that she was walking on level ground, but when she looked back there was no sign of any town behind her.
=THE THUNDER BIRD= Further aeronautic adventures of "Skyrider" Johnnie Jewel.
When he was ready to go on, Snake refused to budge.
They should not, she declared, mix murders and thunderstorms in the same scene.
I shall see that you _do_ answer for it!
"Brit's pretty sick yet; I don't guess you'd better go inside.
That she did not convince Senator Warfield of Lorraine's mental derangement was a mere detail.
She turned and saw that something had gone wrong.
Morgan, that was a _horrible_ kind of--nightmare.
I'll take my West before the camera, thank you; or I would, if I hadn't jumped right into the middle of this trick West before I knew what I was doing.
"Go and lay down on the blanket," he commanded.
"I guess you need a ride, all right.
"It's like Fred Thurman," Swan continued moralizing.
Quite suddenly it came to her--the knowledge of why she did not like this man.
Yellowjacket's lower lip sagged with senility or lack of spirit, Lorraine could not tell which.
Until he reached the place where he had first sighted her, Lone rode swiftly, anxious to be through with the business and go his way.
You'll hide under a bush and wait until you're almost stepped on before you so much as wiggle an ear!
"Lone, I hate to do it.
And Swan does what he can, of course, but----" "I just thought you maybe needed somebody right bad," said Lone quietly, meaning a great deal more than Lorraine dreamed that he meant.
What's he say about Brit?
By the glow of the match Lorraine saw how sober Jim looked, how his chin was trembling under the drooping, sandy mustache.
"I just heard something down by the gate." She could save a few minutes, she thought, by running down to the corral where Frank would probably stop and unload the few sacks of grain he was bringing, before he drove up to the house.
Yellowjacket, too--she had never ridden at that terrific speed down hill.
She called you Loney, and she wanted you to come and get her.
For just a few bars she heard it, and then it was stilled, and the road dipping steeply before her seemed very lonely, its emptiness cooling her brief anger to a depression that had held her too often in its grip since that terrible night of the storm.
Just what form their objection would take, Brit did not know.
The rock walls rose sheer, the roofs slanted rakishly, the signs scratched on the rock by facetious riders were pointless and inane.
Every one on the Quirt ranch was accounted for.
Come on--it ain't far." To see a rabbit hole in the ground, Lorraine consented to mount and ride while Lone walked beside her, agreeing with everything she said that needed agreement.
"You didn't tell him anything, did you?" he asked, as if there had been no pause in their talk.
Even the unseemly bay-windowed houses on the hill had gone under.
So there they were, small fish making shift to live precariously with other small fish in a pool where big fish swam lazily.
As I was going to cross that creek just before you come to Rock City, two men came along on horseback, and I hid before they saw me.
Beside the wagon rode Lone, his head drooped a little in the starlight.
Put the dog on, why don't you?" "Yack is on already," Swan pointed out.
She did not know at just what moment she became aware of trouble behind her.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN "I THINK AL WOODRUFF'S GOT HER" There was no opportunity for further conference.
He had homesteaded an eighty-acre claim on the south side of Bear Top and had by that means gained possession of two living springs and the only accessible portion of Wilder Creek where it crossed the meadow called Skyline before it plunged into a gulch too narrow for cattle to water with any safety.
He went to look for him.
We'll meet you up here.
I don't want you talking about what you saw.
Don't leave the ranch today.
"Now I tell you what I do.
Run along to the house and don't worry--and don't say anything to your dad, either.
These he pulled on over his shoes, tied them around his ankles and went on, still keeping close under the hill.
"It is something funny about that chain.
They'll have you in the bug-house at Blackfoot, sure as you live." He looked at the saddle, hesitated, looked again at Swan, who was watching him.
Why hadn't he come back down the gulch yesterday and helped track the girl, as he was told to do?
Even through the crash of thunder Lorraine heard the horse go past her down the hill, galloping furiously.
"I found her in that gulch away this side.
It was not a pretty sight, but Swan's interest held him there for perhaps ten minutes, his eyes leaving the body only when the blaze-faced horse moved.
Still he ran, his breath unlabored yet coming in whispery aspirations from his great lungs.
Before the post-office a terribly grimy touring car stood with its running-boards loaded with canvas-covered suitcases.
I don't reckon the outfit'll bust up before you get a man down there." The foreman looked at him curiously, for this was not like Lone, whose tone had always been soft and friendly, and whose manner had no hint of brusqueness.
There's no picture stuff in the real West, I guess; they don't do things that way.
Three miles straight down we come to Thurman's ranch, where I get the horses.
A man might have had some trouble in keeping to the trail, but Jack trotted easily along and never once seemed at fault.
But it was a lusty, full-voiced young decision, and it was growing at an amazing rate.
But she kept on doggedly, disgustedly, the West, which she had seen through the glamour of swift-blooded Romance, sinking lower and lower in her estimation.
They seemed brow-beaten into the belief that it would be useless to fight back.
Won't you _please_ talk to your mother and tell her we need the doctor?" Swan drew back.
If Al Woodruff, for some reason which Lone could not fathom, had taken Lorraine and forced her to go with him into the wilderness, Warfield and Hawkins would be his allies the moment they came up with him.
Always the other feller stops sometimes, and then you get him.
I'm so glad you're here on the job, Swan, that I'm plumb willing to be tied hand and foot if it'll help you any." "When a man's too damn willing to be my prisoner," Swan observed seriously, "he gets tied, all right.
He stood there for a time, looking out into the gloom of early nightfall.
The other evidence Jack had eaten in the night.
I have walked many times." Lorraine did not answer him.
The load was rocking along behind them.
Much more at ease than it would have been had he read what was in Lorraine's mind when, she slammed that door.
Swan could therefore give his whole attention to the business at hand.
She had once fled through a brush patch in Griffith Park with her hair flowing loose, and she had not liked the experience, though it had looked very nice on the screen.
Brit had hauled from the mountain-side logs long and logs short, and it had seemed a shame to cut the long ones any shorter.
Hawkins gave Lone a quick, questioning look and nodded carelessly to Swan.
"It's some consider'ble of a walk.
Rock City was confusing unless one was perfectly familiar with its curious, winding lanes.
Pretty bad, wasn't it?" "Lightning is always bad, isn't it?" Lorraine tried to hold her voice steady.
Lone, his face moody, his eyes clouded with thought, rode beside him, while Jack trotted loose-jointedly at Swan's heels.
"Where'd you git that idee?" he demanded.
Having reported the damage to the bridge and made his suggestions about the repairs, he touched up John Doe again and loped away on a purely personal matter, which had to do with finding the bag which the girl had told him was under a bush where a rabbit had been sitting.
Brit thought that he would have "cleaned out" had he known that Lorraine was coming.
Good night, dad." Brit answered her noncommittally, apparently sunk already in his own musings.
They reached timber line, following the seldom used trail that wound over the divide to Bear Top Pass and so, by a difficult route which he did not believe Al would attempt after dark, to the country beyond the mountain.
"You could tell me about this, I think, but I can find out for myself," he observed, glancing at Lone briefly.
Talking by the thought route from Spirit Canyon to Boise City was evidently a bit too much for even their phlegmatic souls to contemplate with perfect calm.
She drank a cup of coffee, went out and called Jim, and told him that she was going to take a ride, and that she wanted a decent horse.
"If I can read brands," Lone testified, "she's no girl of Bob's.
You're a good rider, Mr.
"Where'd you pick her up, Lone?
"What a brute you are!" Lorraine exclaimed indignantly.
"The court'll have to settle up the estate and find his heirs, if he's got any.
Just where or how that wind sprang up she did not know.
You will have plenty of time to do that while your father's bones mend." He proceeded to mix the unpleasant dose, which Lorraine swallowed and straightway forgot, in the muddle of thoughts that whirled confusingly in her brain.
Her wrist watch, on the chair beside her bed, said that it was fifteen minutes past six, which she considered an unearthly hour for rising.
Now you can ride hobbled, young lady." "Oh, I could _kill_ you!" Lorraine whispered between set teeth.
"Frank I got, and made a clean job of it.
You're smart--but not smart enough.
Still, Al Woodruff seemed unable to play his part realistically.
It was broad day--a sun-scorched day to boot--and Senator Warfield perspired behind the wheel of his car.
"And if you're going to live at the Quirt, Raine, you'll have to learn to keep your mouth shut.
"He's bound to show his head, give him time enough.
"I found him in the brush this side of Granite Creek.
Straightway she discovered that Yellowjacket had a mind of his own and that a pessimistic mind.
She was much inclined to criticism of the costuming and the acting.
Some one had spread a piece of canvas over the corpse, and Swan did not go very near.
"You have had a hard time of it yourself, young lady," he told her.
The bird's mate whirred up and away through the trees, and Lorraine was glad that it had escaped.
But I was sure I saw it.
Why--why it shouldn't be allowed!
Also he virtuously pointed out that he had come with Yack before daylight to the canyon to see if they had found Miss Hunter and gone home, or if they were still hunting for her.
He looked at him speculatively.
Then he retied her exactly as she had been tied on Snake.
"I can climb the hill--it is up there.
=GOOD INDIAN= A story named for its half-breed hero, who dominates this stirring Western romance.
Halfway to the Quirt he met Lorraine riding along the trail.
This ain't the first time a man ever quit yuh, is it, Hawkins?" "No--and there ain't a man on the pay roll we can't do without," Hawkins retorted, his neck stiffening with resentment.
Why, it's like setting into a poker game with a five-cent piece!
"You see where he was headed for, don't yuh, Swan?" he asked, his tone as friendly as though he was not under arrest as a murderer.
He believed the story of her being insane had been carefully planned, and that Warfield had perhaps ridden over in the hope that they would find her alone; though with Frank dead on the ranch that would be unlikely.
For a mile or more, where the land lay fairly level in a platter-like valley set in the lower hills, the mud that rimmed the pools was scored deep with the tracks of the "TJ up-and-down" cattle, as the double monogram of Hunter and Johnson was called.
Lone saw him turn into our trail over an hour ago, he said." Sorry, his fingers thrust into his overalls pockets, his thumbs hooked over the waistband, spat into the sand beside the path.
She walked for another half hour and saw only the gray sage stretching all around her.
"You mustn't let her run loose and maybe kill herself or somebody else!" Mrs.
Now here was a live man, after all, with his hat tilted down over his forehead, a cigarette in one hand and his reins in the other, looking at her and smiling.
Far in the distance, against the rim of rugged hills, was an irregular splotch of brown which was the headquarters of the Sawtooth.
"Maybe we get shot or something like that.
"Thought maybe I could trust yuh to play square," Al said disgustedly, pulling her to her feet, the gun still smoking in his hands.
"You're strange to this country, and you don't know all the ins and outs of--things.
In a few minutes Lone returned, to find Senator Warfield trying to glean information from Swan, who seemed willing enough to give it if only he could find enough English words to form a complete sentence.
I'm the man that found you and took you in to the ranch." "Oh." Lorraine looked at him steadily.
"I don't know any more than you do about it." "Well, how'n 'ell did it happen?
She got well, all right, did she?" "Yeah--only she was still coughing some when she left the ranch.
The vague bulk of buildings was still some distance ahead, and when a rumble like the deepest notes of a pipe organ began to fill all the air, Lorraine thrust her grip under a bush and began to run, her soggy shoes squashing unpleasantly on the rough places in the road.
She used to work for the moving pictures, and she was going on about some wild-west picture she thought she was acting a part in.
"I could go on Skyline with Yack, and I could come down by those trail," he suggested diffidently, Swedishly, yet with a certain compelling confidence.
you ain't going to be a bit hard to marry," he observed, his eyes lighting with what was probably his nearest approach to tenderness.
It--it was awful!" "I'll bet it was.
He had to think, whether he would or no.
He is not suffering appreciably.
But he ain't showed up yet." Senator Warfield said that he felt sure the coroner would be prompt and then questioned Jim artfully about "Miss Hunter." "Raine?
We figured--_we_ figured, emphasize the _we_, folks,--that the Quirt would have to be put outa business.
Neither had spoken since they left the ranch, where Jim was wandering dismally here and there, trying to do the chores when his heart was heavy with a sense of personal loss and grim foreboding.
Al was conscientious and did his best to earn his wages; not because he particularly loved killing and spying as a sport, but because the Sawtooth had bought his loyalty for a price, and so long as he felt that he was getting a square deal from them, he would turn his hand against any man that stood in their way.
Swan had not told him of anything but the runaway, and of helping to carry Brit home--and of the "damn funny thing about the chain"--the rough-lock, he must have meant.
"I've got my calling card," he said softly to John Doe.
An intelligent man like Bill Warfield could acquire much land in this manner, give him time enough.
THE QUIRT PARRIES THE FIRST BLOW 158 XIII.
Fence posts were strewn at all angles down the incline, and far down a horse was standing with part of the harness on him and with his head drooping dispiritedly.
He could see nothing of the men until Lone appeared and fed the flames more wood, and sat down where the light shone on his face.
I knew you'd double-cross your own father--but I never thought you had it in you to do it in the open.
When she went past the house I knew the poor thing wasn't right----" "We'll overtake her," Senator Warfield assured her comfortingly.
Fred Thurman had been known to every one of them.
"By golly, this is lonesome here," Swan complained, heaving a great sigh.
Swan whistled the dog to him with a peculiar, birdlike note and called to Lone.
Dad won't have his supper until Frank comes with the things I sent for.
"All right, now I talk," said Swan and pulled upon the nail in his fingers.
Then, stepping carefully on trampled brush and rocks, he approached and cautiously lifted Lone's coat.
"She said she was coming to the ranch, and she was scared of the thunder and lightning.
I don't see how you can have the nerve to live in an empty space like this and purr!" She got up then, looked into the kitchen and saw the paper on the table.
I think the man you're after changed horses there, just on a chance that somebody might trail him from the road.
But Swan was leaning against it, and his eyes were on them.
"You don't know me--I really haven't got any right to ask or expect you to trust me.
His eyes searched Lone's face pitilessly.
There is some injury to the head, the exact extent of which I cannot as yet determine.
In this case"--he sent a sharp glance at Al--"it seems to me your interests are involved more than ours.
There was no getting around that, however impossible it might be.
Perhaps it's true--perhaps I did see it all.
Folks haven't got much to talk about.
Since he was much bigger than Al, with a correspondingly longer stride, his gait puzzled Lone until he saw just what Swan was doing.
Snake moved reluctantly when Al started on.
I'm going to saddle the family skeleton, and I'm going to ride till dark.
She looked around at the tiny basin set like a saucer among the pines.
I was bringing it over to you.
Lorraine had waited until his head began to droop lower and lower, and his switching at flies had become purely automatic.
Swan wanted to take Al Woodruff back with him in irons.
I don't see men ride backwards, much." Lone turned on him and struck the stirrup from his hand.
Too many disturbing emotions had held him lately; Lone was beginning to feel the need of a long, quiet pondering over his problems.
If he did not, then Swan meant to be present when the meeting occurred.
She hated it even more than she had hated the Casa Grande and her mother's frowsy mentality.
Then, with Swan and Jack leading the way, they climbed over the ridge and descended into the hollow by way of the ledge which Skinner had negotiated so carefully the night before.
"We can carry him to Fred Thurman's.
He knows things." "I'm going to the Sawtooth," Lone told him.
It flashed across her mind that not even her old director would order her to make a run for that horse and try to get away on him.
Considering the distance, he was back in a surprisingly short time with two blankets, a couple of light poles and a flask of brandy.
"Yack don't make a mistake like that, and I don't think I'm blind.
Everybody that was apt to be riding through was accounted for, and I knew there wasn't any one coming horseback or with a rig.
I wish you'd tell me as close as you can where you left that grip of yours.
"Heard you were lost up in Rock City all night." Lorraine looked up at him, startled.
He was not, and I am merely pointing out the fact that he might have been, had he been given any cause.
What it contained Lone did not know.
"I think he's coming, dad," she called in to her father.
"I can telephone to the coroner from there.
She went on, making Yellowjacket trot when he did not want to trot down hill.
"There yuh go--fight--fight--and I told yuh there ain't any fighting going on.
"I saw him coming an hour ago," he said.
"Not to me, she didn't.
"I am strong like a mule," he said.
So the big Swede has got to be smart enough to get the evidence against him for killing." "Well, I wish yuh luck, Swan, but I can't say you're going at it right.
He did not feel sure of anything except the fact that the Quirt was like a drowning man struggling vainly against the whirlpool that is sucking him slowly under.
He left only a little while ago, and I was waiting for one of the boys to come back so I could send him to town." It was on Lone's tongue to ask why the doctor had not taken in the order himself and instructed some one to bring out the things; but he remembered how very busy with its own affairs was Echo and decided that the doctor was wise.
I've been square with her--she'll tell you that.
He went and sat in a place where he looks down on the walley, and he howled for half an hour.
"I killed Fred Thurman--this girl, here, saw me shoot him.
I'm a Swede, all right!
"All right, now maybe you'll listen to reason.
Brit Hunter's girl, he was thinking, was even nicer than he had pictured her.
They said something about the TJ had been here a long time, but they would get theirs, and it was like sitting into a poker game with a nickel.
"You call us cowards because we don't git up on our hind legs and fight the Sawtooth.
She felt absolutely certain that he would shoot her with as little compunction as he would marry her by force,--and it seemed to Lorraine that he would not greatly care which he did.
"What yuh quittin' for, Lone?" he added incredulously.
And Frank getting killed kinda--upset her, I guess." "That's it--that's what I was saying.
I could ask Lone how can a man be drunk so he falls off the wagon when no whisky smell is on his breath." "Breath?
Are you hurt much, dad?" It was a futile question, because Brit was already going off into unconsciousness.
Her decision to go to her dad had been born with the words on her lips.
I really meant it for a vacation, but since you won't be alone, I may stay with dad permanently.
But until he was seventeen he had lived very close to the center of one of the deadliest feuds of the Blue Ridge.
A little farther and she would be out of the scene, and men stationed ahead would ride up and stop her horse for her and tell her how well she had "put it over." She looked over her shoulder and saw them still coming.
"You boys goin' over t' Spirit Canyon?" Frank wanted to know.
He felt hurt, because, as he pointed out to Frank, he was perfectly willing to support Minnie and the kids if they came back where he could have a chance.
I can take short cuts that a horse can't take.
Better take off them wet clothes and put hot blankets around her.
Swan Vjolmar was there and had his log cabin roofed and ready for the door and windows before the Sawtooth discovered his presence.
Just now Lone was stirred beyond his usual depth of emotion, and it was not altogether the sight of Fred Thurman's battered body that unnerved him.
Go and stay with your dad, but don't let him know--get him to sleep.
Whether he was tied or not Lone could not tell at that distance, but he knew the horse by its banged forelock and its white face and sorrel ears, and he knew the owner of the horse.
Hunh!" He lifted the lid of the stove, spat into it as if he were spitting in the face of an enemy, and turned again to Lorraine.
"I been watching for the last two hours, expecting every minute she'd show up.
She hated the nervous tenant who occupied the apartment just over her mother's three-room-and-bath, and pounded with a broom handle on the floor when Lorraine practised overtime on chromatic scales.
And what could the Quirt do to prevent the outrage?
Now, for instance, he merely forced her back to the campfire, pulled the saddle strings from his pocket and tied her feet together, using a complicated knot which he told her she might work on all she darn pleased, for all he cared.
I come straight down the hill to the team." "Well, I saw some one.
Almond-shaped they were, the irises a clear, dark gray, the eyeballs blue-white like a healthy baby's.
"I'm hot on the trail of coyotes--all kinds.
We saw where her horse had cast a shoe, coming over Juniper Ridge.
Jim watched her gravely, untied Snake and stood at his head while she mounted, then walked ahead of her to the gate and opened it for her.
I'd have gone into the canyon and finished him with a rock, but they beat me to it.
And he was asking me just how it happened that the brake didn't hold, and I said it must have been all right, because I saw you come out from under the wagon just before you hitched up.
For down in the bushes on the farther side half lay, half hung the limp form of a man.
"But Brit Hunter's hurt bad, so a doctor must come quick, or I think he maybe will die.
Lone's time was limited, yet he took the direct route rather reluctantly.
Swan glanced up at the sun, saw that it was dropping to late afternoon and started in at a long, loose-jointed trot across the mountain meadow called Skyline.
Snake looked as if he would never move from that position until he toppled over.
If she had not been so very sick, Lone would have laughed at her naive method of identifying the spot.
You gave yourself away when I showed you Fred's saddle.
The girl's eyes were disconcertingly direct, her voice and her manner disturbed him with their judicial calmness, so at variance with the wildness he remembered.
There was nothing picturesque, nothing adventurous about it.
And there was his smile, and a glimpse of his eyes.
We're just at the most crucial point with our reclamation project, over here on the flat.
"Right now you're figuring how you'll get around this bawling-out I'm giving you.
From that beatific vision Lorraine floated into others more entrancing.
"My mother I love like that," he said, without looking up.
"I chased a coyote from Rock City to here, and by golly, he's going yet!
"You can pack it, can't you?" He grinned a little as he handed out the gun, muzzle toward himself.
That's a damn good rider to ride like that--what you think, Mr.
He had a rope, and he was knotting it in a long loop to the poles.
CHAPTER FIVE A DEATH "BY ACCIDENT" Lone Morgan was a Virginian by birth, though few of his acquaintances knew it.
"If I'd asked him to let me go along he'd have made some excuse--oh, I'm beginning to know dad!
"Don't go wandering around aimless, like a hen turkey, watching a chance to duck into the brush.
In the belief that it was only Lorraine they were following, and that she would be frightened and would come to the cheer of a campfire, they had a fine, inviting blaze.
Which you ruther do?" Brit tilted his chair backward so that he could reach the coffeepot on the stove hearth.
I'm scared of crazy people.
She decided that he also was new to the place and therefore perfectly useless to her.
It was for just such work that the Sawtooth paid him--secretly, to be sure--better wages than the foreman, Hawkins, received.
He, too, went lunging down that trail, his head thrown from side to side that he might watch the thing that menaced him, heedless of the fact that danger might lie ahead of him also.
And I have never made a practice of dictating to you.
You ain't told anybody what you saw, have yuh?" Lorraine hid her face against his arm.
He must just imagine it.
"It's for more than killing these men.
He failed to fill her with fear and repulsion.
He's all right--I ain't saying anything against Lone--but the less you have to say the more you'll have to be thankful fur, mebby." "I was wondering if Swan could have gotten word somehow to the Sawtooth and had them telephone out that you were hurt.
She was sweeping the doorstep with the one-sided broom when Brit drove out through the gate and up the trail which she knew led eventually to Sugar Spring.
A man ain't a coward when he stands with his hands over his head.
"And if I have married you-all by accident, you can get a bill of divorce for desertion.
"No one is holding a gun at your head.
If he failed to understand her and her mental hunger for real companionship, perhaps she also failed to understand him.
Senator Warfield looked her over calmly (just as a director would have wished him to do) and turned to Hawkins.
She would have to follow the road, for after all it must lead _somewhere_,--to her father's ranch, probably.
"You say she went to the Sawtooth?" "She came pelting over there crazier than when you brought her in," Hawkins broke in gruffly.
"Last night my dog Yack whines to go out.
She got as far as the gulch, and the lightning scared her from going any farther." He offered Al his tobacco sack and fumbled for a match.
This was a narrow, rather precipitous gully that seamed the slope just beyond the bend.
"If that damn girl would keep her mouth shut I could stand a trial, even.
"There was a loose horse hanging around Thurman's place," he said casually.
Before she knew that she was sleepy, she slept.
She thought once that he must have some clairvoyant power, because whenever she felt as if her arms were breaking, Swan would tell her to stop a minute.
By golly, that shows you what could happen if a man don't think.
Yet, when she forced herself to stop and think, it was all about nothing.
He glanced furtively behind him at Swan, and found that guileless youth ready to poke him in the back with the muzzle of a gun.
She was on the point of calling out to him, thinking that he was her dad, when he disappeared into the brush.
Brit always meant to throw out that empty pepper can and always neglected to do so.
An owl hooted unexpectedly, and Lorraine edged closer to her captor, who was gathering dead branches one by one and throwing them toward a certain spot which he had evidently selected for a campfire.
"If she's a woman, she's a heart-balmer if she gets the chance.
* * * * * LITTLE, BROWN & CO., Publishers, Boston, Mass.
Lorraine ran awkwardly, her hands over her ears, crying out at each lightning flash, her voice drowned in the thunder that followed it close.
He turned away to find the sheriff and almost collided with Brit Hunter, who was glancing speculatively from him to Lone Morgan.
Even in the wilds of Western melodrama one could hear the clang of street-car gongs warning careless autoists off the track.
From there they put Jack on the freshest hoofprints leaving the place, and were led here and there in an apparently aimless journey to nowhere until, after Jack had been at fault in another rock patch, the trail took them straight away to the ridge overlooking the Quirt ranch.
I guess Brit's at the ranch." "Sorry I'm busy to-day," said Lone, opening the door.
Not to look at, that's sure.
"'Don't leave the ranch to-day!' Ket, I believe it's going to be dangerous or something, after all." She dressed quickly and went outside into the sunlight, the cat at her heels, the thrill of that one command filling the gray monotone of the hills with wonderful possibilities of adventure.
When you strike at the Quirt you strike at me.
I saw the horse go by, running--and you want me to keep still about that?
Half a mile farther on he overtook her.
Bob Warfield he saw at a distance and gave no sign of recognition.
A hollow into which she walked in complete darkness and in silence, save the gurgling of another stream, hid from sight the shadowy semblance of houses and barns and sheds.
He did not believe that Lorraine had been to the Sawtooth, or that she had raved about anything.
But there's another horse track." Lone bit his lip.
He'd have done it slick; don't worry none about that.
You were kinda out of your head when I found you, and you said something about seeing a man shot and----" "Oh!" Lorraine looked up at him, looked through him, he thought, with those brilliant eyes of hers.
"He wouldn't dare!" "A coward is a brave man when you scare him bad enough," Swan stated flatly.
As he drove up the trail, which was in places barely passable for a wagon, Brit was thinking of that fence.
Good Lord, you're a husky son-of-a-gun!" The sheriff's eyes went up to Swan's hat crown, descended to his shoulders and lingered there admiringly for a moment, traveled down his flat, hard-muscled body and his straight legs.
Lone had warned her of what people would say if she told any one of what she saw in Rock City, perhaps really believing that she had imagined it all.
You believe in ghosts?" "Naw.
There was nothing to do, unless she took that queer old horse with withers like the breastbone of a lean Christmas turkey and hips that reminded her of the little roofs over dormer windows, and went for a ride.
Then I reckon he stuck the whisky bottle in Frank's pocket and heaved him out.
At Rock City, then, Lone stopped to examine the base of every rock, even riding around those nearest the road.
She studied Al's back as he rode before her and wondered if he could really be cold-blooded enough to kill without compunction whoever he was told to kill, whether he had any personal quarrel with his victim or not.
She had never seen just such a situation arise in a screen story, but she knew what danger might lie in being accused of insanity.
I saw you," she cried suddenly.
The Quirt's kinda overreached itself.
Hunter, you been longer in the country than I have been.
Brit was sitting braced with his feet far apart, holding and guiding the team.
Why not have the killing done by moonlight, and use the storm when the murderer was getting away, or something like that?
"I can't believe you'd ask me to help cover up a crime, but it seems hard to believe that a nightmare would cause any great commotion.
This was new and vaguely promised some sort of break in the deadly monotony which she saw stretching endlessly before her.
"And Bob Warfield and his Ford are incidents of the past, and not one soul at the Sawtooth seems to give a darn whether I'm in the country or out of it.
To come at once to the end of Brit's matrimonial affairs, he heard from the children once in a year, perhaps, after they were old enough to write.
Give him a reason, and you won't need to give him a chance along with it.
The sheriff listened, nodded, beckoned to Swan.
He, too, was wet from his hat crown to his shoes, that squelched when he landed lightly on his toes.
"How 'n 'ell did he git here--the doctor?" he demanded, making a great effort to hold his voice down to a whisper, and forgetting now and then.
It is quicker than to make coffee." "It will be dark before we can get him home," said Lorraine uneasily.
He has a splendid amount of constitutional vitality, or he would scarcely have survived his injuries so long without medical attendance.
The Sawtooth country was rather punctilious in its duty toward the law, and it was generally believed that the coroner would want to see the horse that had caused the tragedy.
The man who committed the crime might be punished,--if public opinion were sufficiently massed against him.
By golly, if that dog lies to me this time, I lick him good!" Lone came back, grinning a little.
You tell the boss Swan says so.
"He's dead--it can't help him any to----" He stopped and pulled himself together.
That Senator Warfield was anything less than a godlike man who stood very high on the ladder of Fame, she would never believe.
"Now stop your bawling and go to sleep," he advised her calmly.
He explained laboriously how the thoughts from her came like his mother speaking in his head, and that his thoughts reached her in the same way.
Those two men would never lay their hands on Lorraine Hunter while he lived to prevent it.
=CABIN FEVER= How Bud Moore and his wife, Marie, fared through their attack of "cabin fever" is the theme of this B.M.
If she saw herself, the beloved queen of her father's cowboys, dashing into Echo, Idaho, on a crimply-maned broncho that pirouetted gaily before the post-office while handsome young men in chaps and spurs and "big four" Stetsons watched her yearningly, she was merely living mentally the only West that she knew.
Lorraine crouched behind a juniper bush close against the rock and waited.
"He's hurt," Lone said, just behind her.
=THE HERITAGE OF THE SIOUX= A Flying U story in which the Happy Family get mixed up in a robbery faked for film purposes.
A little farther, just beyond the point of the grove which they seemed to have missed altogether, lay the other horse and what was left of the wagon.
He rode past the bag without seeing it, for Lorraine had thrust it far back under a stocky bush whose scraggly branches nearly touched the ground.
CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR ANOTHER STORY BEGINS This chapter is very much like a preface: it is not absolutely necessary, although many persons will read it and a few will be glad that it was written.
There was Lone,--instinctively she turned her thoughts to him for comfort.
They had shown no suspicion of Al's part in the affair, and Swan grinned when he thought of the mutual surprise when they met.
"I hope he ain't connected up with that Echo booze.
They went on, Lorraine walking with her head averted, trying not to see the blaze-faced roan, trying to shut out the memory of him dashing past her with his terrible burden, that night.
"A sheep-killer that has made his last killin'.
"I'm plumb out of matches.
They go around gabbling their heads off about every little thing, and adding onto it until you can't recognize your own remarks after they've been peddled for a week.
Nothing," she added desperately, "could happen to Frank between here and the turn-off at the ford, could it?
But the Quirt's having trouble enough to warrant any one in lending a hand; and common humanity demands that I take charge of the girl until she is herself again." "I don't know as any one would question that," Lone assented and ground his teeth afterwards because he must yield even the appearance of approval.
In a very few days Lorraine had exhausted the sights of Quirt Creek and vicinity.
And if he did not mind it, what possible chance had he against a power so ruthless and so cunning?
"Ride ahead of me, Lone." With a shrug of his shoulders Lone obeyed, following the dog as it trotted through the brush on the trail of a man's footprints which Swan had shown it.
She would have passed him with no sign of recognition, but Lone lifted his hat and stopped.
There's nothing else to do." "Well, I caught something about the Sawtooth.
They heard a horse sneeze, beyond the spruce grove, and Warfield stepped forward authoritatively, waving Swan back.
And that she could believe in the nightmare was a vast relief.
It was not his business, and yet---- Lone shook himself together and put John Doe into a lope.
So you better move down this way, or he'll hear us talking and want to know what's up." "You're sure she isn't here?" Senator Warfield's voice held suspicion.
"Dad, why didn't you want me to leave the ranch to-day?
A hard brand to work, a cattleman would tell you.
"Has the girl arrived safely, Lone?" he asked anxiously.
If she went north she would--well, she would not meet Mr.
"You haven't got the dope, and you can't git it, either.
Lorraine was all prepared to fight, but she did not quite know how to struggle with a man who did not take hold of her or touch her, except to steady her in dismounting.
And a poultice or something on her chest, I reckon." Lone turned to the door, stopped to roll a cigarette, and watched Mrs.
I ain't hired at all.
"And I wish you would tell these people what you told me, young man.
What if her dad had not written a word for more than a year?
CHAPTER NINE THE EVIL EYE OF THE SAWTOOTH Oppression is a growth that flourishes best in the soil of opportunity.
She saw where the road ran on, between two square-faced rocks.
The sky was blue, the clouds were handfuls of clean cotton floating lazily.
And why is my father unpopular?" "Well, you don't know this country," Lone parried inexpertly.
=JEAN OF THE LAZY A= A spirited novel of ranch life in which the fascinating heroine poses for film pictures that she may make money necessary to prove her father innocent of a crime for which he has been convicted.
As for the ease with which he planned to kill and cover his killing under the semblance of accident, he would have said, if you could make him speak of it, that he was not squeamish.
I know them two men riding down to the gate.
It was, she firmly believed, what should have been done long ago; what would have curbed effectually the arrogant powers of the Sawtooth.
I'll get him sometime, maybe.
I just mentioned the hat.
I'm taking Al's trail with Yack.
"I'm a United States Marshal, that's all; a government hunter," he stated.
The primitive camp appealed to her; she who had prided herself upon being an outdoor girl saw how she had always played at being primitive.
It was no business of his; it would be foolish to let it become his business.
Take it easy, Raine, on the worrying.
Share and share alike, they lived and worked and wrangled together like brothers.
If that's a sample of her riding, she ain't far off." "Crazy--to ride up here.
He looked up, hesitated, drew out his knife and opened the small blade.
From the creek the trail she followed kept climbing until Lorraine wondered if there would ever be a top.
But don't for any sake call her _my_ heart-balmer." "That was Pop," drawled Lone.
You think that's it--that's the way they do it.
Swan came back presently, with Jack sulking at his heels.
I--I dreamed once about a horse--like that." Swan's wide-open eyes softened a little.
But it would take a stronger man than the country held to raise the question of Fred Thurman's death and take even the first steps toward proving it a murder.
She crumpled down quietly behind the juniper bush and did not know when the rain came, though it drenched her in the first two or three minutes of downpour.
The horses slipped on the pine needles when Al left the trail and rode up a gentle incline where the trees grew large and there was little underbrush.
Keep your eyes open, boys.
There were two palm trees in front, with bay windows behind them, and pillars.
He only sees folks he's used to having around." With that he dismounted and went into the house, leaving Senator Warfield without an excuse for following.
It seemed to him that Brit must know more of the accident than Swan had told, and the thought did not add to his comfort.
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE "OH, I COULD KILL YOU!" Before sundown they reached the timberland on Bear Top.
I'll go crazy if I stay here any longer." Jim eyed her while he bit off a chew of tobacco.
"Ket, you're an awful fool," she exclaimed fiercely.
"I knew you'd be surprised!" "I am," Lorraine agreed, pulling aside the cheap green portieres and looked in upon the two.
That is why a doctor comes." Lorraine looked at him strangely and stooped again to her burden.
It's right simple, and if folks didn't get to wondering about it, it'd be safe as any killing can be.
The next she knew, the team was running, their eyeballs staring, their front feet flung high as they lunged panic-stricken down the trail.
"The muscle strain is not serious," he said calmly.
"What was you 'n Lone talkin' so long about, out in the kitchen last night?
Brit yelled to her then to get out of the way, and his voice was harsh and insistent.
You take Snake and ride around close and forget things for awhile." He hesitated, his hand moving slowly back to his pocket.
Whereas, if he were present, they would be on their guard, at least.
Once in the woods she might have some chance of eluding him, and perhaps Skinner would show as much wisdom going as he had in coming, and take her down to the sageland.
After the first shock had passed a deep, fighting rage filled her, made her long for day so that she might fight back somehow.
Don't tell girl she's crazy." He tapped his head to make his meaning plainer.
Let 'em come at me about that fence!
Four of a kind were the men of the TJ up-and-down, and even Bill Warfield--president and general manager of the Sawtooth Cattle Company, and of the Federal Reclamation Company and several other companies, State senator and general benefactor of the Sawtooth country--even the great Bill Warfield lifted his hat to the owners of the Quirt when he met them, and spoke of them as "the finest specimens of our old, fast-vanishing type of range men." Senator Warfield himself represented the modern type of range man and was proud of his progressiveness.
We must find her, whatever we do." Warfield gazed apprehensively at the rugged steeps on either hand and at the timber line above them.
He smiled with his lips when she pulled up Snake with a startled look.
Thought I'd find him somewhere around the corral, maybe." "You won't, because he's gone for the day.
Unconsciously Lorraine mentally fitted herself into a dramatic movie "scene" and plunged straight into the subject.
"Coyotes are foolish, alongside him, and you'll find it out.
"My mother I love so well that I talk with my thoughts to her sometimes.
Their very uneasiness seemed to prove that there was more than enough cause for it.
Much of the time they traveled in the water, though it slowed their pace.
She knows I'd have killed her if she didn't--which I would.
Jack singled out one and ran toward it silently, as he had done all his trailing that morning.
Senator Warfield had reasons for knowing that Lorraine was merely afflicted with a dangerous amount of knowledge and was using it without discretion.
Never in her life before had she walked for two hours without seeming to get anywhere, or without seeing any living human.
At the Thurman ranch, which she was passing with a sickening memory of the night when she and Swan had carried her father there, Al Woodruff rode out suddenly from behind the stable and blocked the trail, his six-shooter in his hand, his face stony with determination.
"Take a movie studio, for instance." "Yes.
They did try to hold the load, Frank.
I was on the jury.
"You needn't worry about Swan.
The station agent was carrying two boxes of oranges and a crate of California cabbages in out of the sun, and a limp individual in blue gingham shirt and dirty overalls had shouldered the mail sack and was making his way across the dusty, rut-scored street to the post-office.
"We made no particular effort to trace her from there, because we were sure she would come on home.
I'm after him, by golly, till I get him." Lone muttered something and went out.
That was the wonder of them.
Fred was dragged that night, and if she heard about a man being killed during that same storm, she might have said something about it.
He had not objected to the Sawtooth cattle which still watered at Skyline Meadow.
She inquired about trains and rates to Echo, Idaho.
You're a stranger here, Miss Hunter, and--your father is not as popular in this country as he might be.
At first it had been fighting fury that had impelled her to hurry; now it was fear that drove her homeward where Lone was, and Swan, and that stolid, faithful Jim.
Did his horse have a white face, dad?" "Yes, he's a blaze-faced roan.
We trail, and we keep our mouth still, Yack.
Some folks woulda taken a shot at you." "Then they'd hit me, sure," Swan observed, letting himself down into the trail.
Have you been away all the forenoon?
But he had managed to kill Frank--poor old Frank, who would never grumble and argue over little things again.
If he has----" "Oh, no, dad!
Now, nearly a year afterwards, he was accepted in a tolerant, half-friendly spirit.
Lone wondered sometimes what the Sawtooth meant to do about the Swede, but so far the Sawtooth seemed inclined to do nothing at all, evidently thinking his war on animal pests more than atoned for his effrontery in taking Skyline as a homestead.
"Lone, you know how ugly a story can grow if it's left alone.
"They don't get scared, Mr.
It was make-believe West, but I learned things just the same." She kissed him on the unshaven cheek nearest her,--and thought of the kisses she had breathed upon the cheeks of story fathers with due care for the make-up on her lips.
Hawkins' horse broke away and gave us some trouble catching him, so the girl had quite a start.
She pulled up the covers and tried to sleep again.
Her mother came in then and complained intimately to the man, and declared that the dressmaker would have to pay that bill or have her gas turned off.
Al was very adept at reading men's moods and intentions from small details in their behavior.
That dog, he never quits till I say quit." "You better go down and get a horse, then," Lone advised.
He could not, then, be planning to take her much farther into the wilderness; yet if he did not hide her away, how could he expect to keep her?
She had married him because he was a cowboy, and because he was a nimble dancer and rode gallantly with silver-shanked spurs ajingle on his heels and a snakeskin band around his hat, and because a ranch away out on Quirt Creek had sounded exactly like a story in a book.
"It's all right in some ways, and in some ways it could be a lot improved.
She may have hidden herself away.
If Brit lived, he might talk as much as he pleased, but he could never prove that his accident had been deliberately staged with murderous intent.
"By to-night I'd have had her married to me, you damned fool.
He was a conscientious young man, and since he had charge of Elk Spring camp, he set its interests above his own, which was more than some of the Sawtooth men would have done in his place.
"Well, what do you know?" Swan turned his head to inquire abruptly.
At the far end of the clearing, snuggled between two great pines that reached high into the blue, his squatty cabin showed red-brown against the precipitous shoulder of Bear Top peak, covered thick with brush and scraggy timber whipped incessantly by the wind that blew over the mountain's crest.
"They can't pin nothing on _me_," Al tried to comfort himself.
"I think," said Swan quietly, "we will go now and find out where that horse went last night." "A good idea," Lone agreed.
"I kinda thought you could ride.
"That there is the girl's horse, all right--there's a hind shoe missing.
Come on--you're wet as a ducked pup." "That man was just riding along--I saw him when it lightened.
Because I know that man was shot.
I think I shall go on my own legs." "Well, I'm going down to the house first.
"Left foot in right stirrup is riding backwards.
He's a fine man, you bet." "He was," said Lone soberly.
"It's sure a bad place in a thunderstorm.
"Anybody would be ashamed to shoot at a mark so large as I am.
It's been hands off the Quirt, up to now.
They were both sandy-complexioned and they both chewed tobacco quite noticeably, and when they sat down in their shirt sleeves to eat, Lorraine had seen irregular humps in their hip pockets which must be six-guns; though why they should carry them in their pockets instead of in holster belts buckled properly around their bodies and sagging savagely down at one side and swinging ferociously when they walked, Lorraine could not imagine.
His rifle swung rhythmically in his right hand, the muzzle tilted downward.
"My God, the whole family's crazy!" Warfield exclaimed, when he had reached the safety of the open air.
"She can't go very far on that horse.
She was plumb crazy when I found her.
"By golly, he follows a coyote till he drops." "Well, it's a coyote we're after now," said Lone.
Swan was startled, but he hadn't much time to worry over the possibility of having been overheard.
He looked at her keenly, even suspiciously, and pointed with the stick in his left hand.
"Go to it and be damned to you!" he muttered.
And a rabbit would feel horrid when he was wet--such thick fur he never _would_ get dried out.
Go up to the head of the gulch and keep your eyes open, Swan.
Al dragged him so for a rod or two, lost patience and returned to whip him forward again.
With his axe he walked through the timber, craning upward for straight tree trunks and lightly blazing the ones he would want, the occasional axe strokes sounding distinctly in the quiet air.
And I'll keep my mouth shut, too.
"But there ain't any I can think of that'd be much force.
It was all that Swan could have hoped for,--more than he had dared to expect on such short notice.
Again Lone stopped and bent to examine it as Swan spread it out in his hands.
I may be gone for three or four hours.
That's a right stirrup, ain't it?
Could you know that man again?" "Raine!" Brit's voice held a warning, and Lorraine shivered again as she turned toward him.
"Was you afraid four wouldn't be enough to take me?" The four turned heads to look.
Carrying the nameless cat in her arms, Lorraine went in her bare feet across the grimy, bare floor to the table and picked up the note.
"He'd plan that way, seems to me.
There's something queer about that man from Whisper.
"I've been that way myself--and made it.
The postmaster advised her to get a "livery rig" and drive out to the ranch, since it might be a week or two before any one came in from the Quirt.
After the train had hooted and gone on around an absolutely uninteresting low hill of yellow barrenness dotted with stunted sage, it was the silence that first impressed Lorraine disagreeably.
It was perfectly passable, as Swan knew; he had packed in by that trail when he located his homestead on Bear Top.
"And by the time a doctor can get out there----" "A doctor will be there, I think.
Her lids lifted in a sudden stare.
Why should Al Woodruff be interested in the exact spot where Brit Hunter's daughter had spent the night of the storm?
"Never mind now how it happened, or whether he was drunk or not--bring him to his senses first, and let him explain.
"Unless she is in a stupor we'd have heard her yelling long ago.
Each carried a most unattractive lunch tied in a flour sack behind the cantle of his saddle.
Rock City showed black and inhospitable even in the sunlight.
You don't think they've got her there, Lone?" "If they have," gritted Lone, "they made the biggest blunder of their lives bringing me over here.
She did not speak again until they were passing the Thurman fence where it ran up into the mouth of the canyon.
Lorraine was not susceptible to mere good looks, three years with the "movies" having disillusioned her quite thoroughly.
He must be coming," she said.
Swan's trot did not slacken.
When daylight came she had either forgotten the bag or had left it deliberately.
There ain't any Charlie, except Charlie Werner; she wouldn't mean him, do yuh s'pose?" "Charlie Werner?
"D'you know--anything?" "No, I don't." Lone's face hardened a little.
"You're not the man, are you?
"You can ask Jim, over here.
LONE TAKES HIS STAND 168 XIV.
He dropped the handkerchief out of his hip pocket when he jumped out of the rig.
You are going to answer for that.
He pulled the twisted foot from the stirrup, left the body where it lay, and led the blaze-faced horse to a tree and tied it securely.
Another mile would have finished him." "Do you mean to say you think I'm crazy?
"I jumped--but I didn't jump quick enough," he muttered thickly.
The riders continued their conversation.
Let me walk out a ways, and you see if that handkerchief's mine.
She thought the director had better go back to driving a laundry wagon, which was probably where he came from.
Lone was heading for the Quirt ranch by the most direct route, fearing, perhaps, that if he waited he would lose his nerve and would not go at all.
Certainly he had had no quarrel with her father, or with Frank.
You didn't tell any one else, did you?" He looked up at her again and found her studying him curiously.
"Swan, you take a fool's advice and don't tell anybody else about feeling words talk in your head.
It may look good, but it ain't good--not by a damn sight.
Some instinct warned her that the man had not yet stated his real reason for coming, and she wondered a little what it could be.
Queer how she claimed she spent the night in Rock City, ain't it?" "No," Lone answered judicially, "I don't know as it's so queer.
It could not be deadly earnest, she thought.
He ought to be arrested right away--I'd have called a policeman but--isn't thunder and lightning just perfectly _awful_?
On the other hand, Al must have been wholly ignorant of Warfield's scheme to try and prove Lorraine crazy.
I thought it was you." Lorraine turned in the doorway and stood looking at him perplexedly.
Hawkins had never distinguished himself as a fighter, but Lone had gleaned here and there a great deal of information about Senator Warfield in the old days when he had been plain Bill.
Lone knew how seldom the owner of the Sawtooth rode on horseback since he had high-powered cars to carry him in soft comfort.
This is a tale of the little fishes.
It was not until the team stopped before the bunk-house that Lorraine knew what it was that gave her that strange, creepy feeling of disaster.
The subdued chuckling of the wagon in the sand outside the gate startled her with its unmistakable reality after so many false impressions that she heard it.
You'd best make up your mind like the cor'ner's jury done, that Fred Thurman was drug to death by his horse.
The other, working swiftly, had thrust the injured man's foot through the stirrup.
I must have been an awful nuisance, but I was so scared--and things were terribly mixed in my mind.
When you strike at me I am going to strike back.
I coulda loved this little girl.
When one has breakfasted on one cup of coffee at dawn and has ridden all day with nothing to eat, running away from food, even though that food is in the hands of one's captor, requires courage.
Why did you say they wouldn't both be likely to have accidents hand-running?
Then, his fingers flexing delicately, swiftly, he sent the message that told how completely his big heart matched the big body: "Send doctor and trained nurse to Quirt ranch at once.
Which frequently happened, since Brit was becoming a prey to rheumatism that sometimes kept him in bed, and Frank occasionally indulged himself in a gallon or so of bad whisky and suffered afterwards from a badly deranged digestion.
Phlegmatically he wetted his finger tip on his tongue, rubbed the stain and held up his finger for Lone to see.
But he judged that it must have been very recently.
He had forced the issue that morning.
"So you stuck it out in Rock City all through that storm!
Where's the man that was on the horse?
The other horse may be killed.
Why should Lone instinctively discount her statement and lie whole-heartedly about it?
"I'll haul down the posts," he decided carelessly.
He met Hawkins coming down from his house and stopped in the trail.
At the corral he came unexpectedly in sight of the Swede, who grinned a guileless welcome and came toward him, so that Lone could not ride on unless he would advertise his dislike of the place.
If you are, I--I----" "No--oh, no, I'm not the man," Lone said gently.
I went back to find your grip--you said you left it under a bush, but the world's plumb full of bushes.
By applying to the nearest Forest Supervisor a certain amount could be had for ranch improvements upon paying a small sum for the "stumpage." The Quirt had permission to cut posts for their new fence which Al Woodruff had reported to his boss.
A vague terror had seized her.
He'll find the chance himself." Because they thought it likely that Al would soon return, they did not hurry.
At his heels went Hawkins, and Swan sent an oblique glance of satisfaction toward Lone, who answered it with his half-smile.
Those who know horses will understand.
And if it comes to fighting----" Brit pushed her from him impatiently.
ANOTHER STORY BEGINS 296 THE QUIRT CHAPTER ONE LITTLE FISH Quirt Creek flowed sluggishly between willows which sagged none too gracefully across its deeper pools, or languished beside the rocky stretches that were bone dry from July to October, with a narrow channel in the center where what water there was hurried along to the pools below.
"What you think?" "I think that's a damned good idea for a square head," Hawkins told him, and repeated it to Warfield, who was riding ahead.
And Lone Morgan is merely ashamed of the way I talked to him, and afraid I'll queer myself with the neighbors.
I thought you were fixing the chain on them." "Huh?" Brit lifted his head off the pillow and let it drop back again, because of the pain in his shoulder.
"I was trying to treat yuh white, but you don't seem to appreciate it.
Lorraine jumped out and ran to meet them, hoping and fearing that her hope was foolish.
You come and get on John Doe and let me take you to the ranch.
She was out of her head and just imagined things." He slipped the soaked purse into his coat pocket, remounted and rode on slowly, looking for the grip and half-believing she had not been carrying one, but had dreamed it just as she had dreamed that a man had been shot.
He knew that Warfield must feel himself in rather a desperate position, else he would never trouble to make his motives so clear to one of his men.
If he missed the children, he was free from tears and nagging complaints, so that his content balanced his loneliness.
He seemed bottled-up, somehow, and bitter.
The word pictures of Western life are realistic, and strongly suffused with local color.--_Philadelphia North American_.
Lone would overtake them, perhaps,--and then she remembered that Lone would have no means of knowing which way she had gone.
"It don't kill Brit Hunter--not yet.
Frank Johnson was dead; Brit was out of the fight for the time being; Jim and Sorry were the doggedly faithful sort who must have a leader before they can be counted upon to do much.
"I guess you don't know me yet," he remarked dryly, when he had confiscated every small article which she could let fall as she rode.
"What do you know about it, Raine?" "I saw a man shoot Fred Thurman and push his foot through the stirrup.
You believe people can talk with their thoughts?" "I don't know--what's that got to do with helping dad?" Lorraine knelt beside Brit and began stroking his forehead softly, as is the soothing way of women with their sick.
Three goggled, sunburned women in ugly khaki suits were disconsolately drinking soda water from bottles without straws, and a goggled, red-faced, angry-looking man was jerking impatiently at the hood of the machine.
Lone lifted his head and looked away across the empty miles of sageland to the quiet blue of the mountains beyond.
Of course she would go to her dad in Idaho!
In three years she thrilled to more blood-curdling adventure than all the Bad Men in all the West could have furnished had they lived to be old and worked hard at being bad all their lives.
Royal was old enough for school and needed clothes.
Whoever they were, she was not sorry she had let them ride on.
"My bag is back there somewhere under a bush.
"We might put his dog on the trail and see which way she went from here." Warfield thought that a good idea.
The Sawtooth had shipped the sheep within a month and turned the ranch into another line-camp.
"She ain't safe going around alone like that." Senator Warfield glanced at him impatiently.
But since Lorraine had not told her father anything about it, his injunction could not have anything to do with the unreliability of the horse.
Hunter, and maybe kill me sometime.
=STARR, OF THE DESERT= A story of mystery, love and adventure, which has a Mexican revolt as its main theme.
That the high-piled, gorgeous cloud-bank presaged a thunderstorm she never guessed; and that a thunderstorm may be a deadly, terrifying peril she never had quite believed.
Now, let's stick to mine for awhile.
Folks live in it mainly because they don't go around blatting everything they see and hear and think." "You have laws, don't you, dad?
The film was under-exposed, and nothing was to be seen of the Little Feller except a hazy spot which I judged was a hand, holding a black object I guessed was the ridgy, rubber rattle with the whistle gone out of the end,--down the Little Feller's throat, they are afraid.
It was still broad daylight, though the sun's rays slanted in through the window; but Swan lighted a lantern that hung on a nail behind the door, carried it across the neat little room, and set it down on the floor beside the usual pioneer cupboard made simply of clean boxes nailed bottom against the wall.
She didn't pull any love talk at all." "Charlie?" Pop ruminated over a fresh quid of tobacco.
Frequently a Sawtooth man would file upon land before any other man had claimed it.
He had warned Swan, and he could do no more.
But it struck her that his voice did not sound quite natural; not so Swedish, not so careful.
The Sawtooth Cattle Company had for years "covered" that eighty-acre patch of government land, never dreaming that any one would ever file on it.
There's nobody to take down what I say, and I'm just a mean, ornery outlaw and killer, talking for spite.
Lorraine had done her conscientious best, but with lumpy, sour-dough bread, cold bacon and currant jelly of that kind which is packed in wooden kegs, one can't do much with a cold lunch.
Not often did a man ride that way, though occasionally some one stopped for a meal if he knew that the cabin was there and had ever tasted Swan's sour-dough biscuits.
She had learned the symptoms of epizooetic--whatever that was--and poll-evil and stringhalt, and had gone from that to making a shopping tour through a Montgomery Ward catalogue.
He himself had placed that weapon in their hands when he took her to the Sawtooth delirious and told of wilder words and actions.
But presently Al looked over his shoulder, saw that one of her hands was bare, and tied Snake's reins to his saddle and his own horse to a bush.
In the same way he tied her ankles.
The bushes there whipped her head and shoulders cruelly as the horse forged in among them, but they trapped him effectually where the gully narrowed to a point.
"Bob, he drove her over there yesterday.
Range cattle were feeding here and there, so wild they lifted heads to stare at the man and dog, then came trotting forward, their curiosity unabated by the fact that they had seen these two before.
Hunter and Johnson owned exactly a section and a half of land, and for a mile and a half Quirt Creek was fenced upon either side.
A few pines, with scattered clumps of juniper and fir, dotted the long, irregular stretch of grassland which formed the meadow.
She somehow mixed her delusion up with Fred Thurman, didn't she?" Lone made a swift decision.
"By golly, I can hear them holler in the shell," Swan sent back, grinning to himself as he rattled the key.
Not about her, she guessed, except when some bad place in the trail made it necessary for him to stop, tie Snake to the nearest bush, lead his own horse past the obstruction and come back after her.
If there's any chance of Frank having an--an _accident_, I should think you'd be out looking after him, and not standing there with your hands in your pockets just waiting to see if he shows up or if he doesn't show up.
And then, because Lone's horse had slowed in a long climb over a ridge, he came up even with a stirrup.
We don't need the dog, or the man either.
Have three men here with evidence to convict if we can save the girl who is valuable witness.
Brit used to study these magnificences and thank God that Minnie was doing so well.
They were all gone when I got up, a little while ago." Then, remembering that she did not know this man, and that she was a long way from neighbors, she added, "If you'll leave a message I can tell dad when he comes home." "No-o--I'll ride over to-morrow or next day.
"The Sawtooth calls me that damn Swede on Bear Top," he explained.
The Sawtooth kept many such camps occupied by men whose duty it was to look after the Sawtooth cattle that grazed near; to see that stock did not "bog down" in the tricky sand of the adjacent water holes and die before help came, and to fend off any encroachments of the smaller cattle owners,--though these were growing fewer year by year, thanks to the weeding-out policy of the Sawtooth and the cunning activities of such as Al Woodruff.
So many heedless ones crossed the Sawtooth's path to riches!
"I think she was plumb out of her head," he answered.
Lorraine had no sooner left the ranch out of sight behind her than she pretended that she was lost.
The place recalled with fresh vividness, her first words to him: "Are _you_ the man I saw shoot that other man and fasten his foot in the stirrup?" Lone shivered and threw away the cigarette he had just lighted.
We ain't ridin' up and down the trail, flourishin' our six-shooters and yellin' to the Sawtooth to come on and we'll clean 'em up!" "But you're fighting just the same, aren't you, dad?
Had she lived all of her life on the Quirt, she probably would never have thought of fighting back and would have accepted conditions just as her dad seemed to accept them.
I know I would." "I guess that's right.
With a finger nail Lorraine traced the ugly, brown pattern on the oilcloth.
In spite of her "Western" experience she looked about her for a taxi, or at least a street car.
You can't run a ranch without water.
She drank a cup of coffee, black, and returned the cup to the killer, who unconcernedly drank from it without any previous rinsing.
He'll be coming any minute, now.
Is this the patient I was sent to examine?" "No!" Lorraine flashed impatiently over her shoulder as she rushed into her own room and began turning down the covers.
Built of wood two inches thick.
Then, as she neared the somber group of buildings, the clouds above them split with a terrific, rending crash, and the whole place stood pitilessly revealed to her, as if a spotlight had been turned on.
To Lorraine, softened by years of southern California weather, it seemed to blow straight off an ice field, it was so cold.
You got there before I did, last night.
"Why, thank you for coming." Lorraine stepped back, tacitly inviting him to enter.
I don't see how 'n 'ell it worked loose.
He was still inclined to doubt the whole story.
"You might go over there by the saddle and set down till I get a fire going," he said.
They saw where the man had climbed into the wagon, and followed to where they had found Frank beside the road, lying just as he had pitched forward from the wagon seat.
I shall mix you a very unpleasant dose of medicine, and then I want you to go to bed and sleep.
Here the road forked, a rough, little-used trail keeping on up the creek, the better traveled road crossing and climbing the farther bank.
Some one up-stairs was frying liver and onions, which was in flagrant defiance of Rule Four which mentioned cabbage, onions and fried fish as undesirable foodstuffs.
"All the way he follows the trail over here, Lone.
She had probably gone off by herself to cry and to worry over her troubles,--hurt, too, perhaps, because Lone had left the ranch that morning without a word with her first.
And when we get to your ranch the doctor will be there, I think.
So far as Lorraine could see, there was not a log cabin in the whole place.
There's the horses waiting for breakfast--and Thurman, he's dead over here and can't feed his pigs and his chickens.
It may have been Yellowjacket, turning his head sidewise and abruptly quickening his pace that warned her.
He shot--and then I saw him----" She stopped abruptly, stood for a minute longer with her eyes covered, then dropped her hands limply to her sides.
"Dad, I've got to tell you.
Twice she lost a stirrup and grabbed the saddle horn to save herself from going over his head.
In travel pictures she had seen mountain sheep climb like that, and she likened him now to one of them.
Suddenly he turned to Lone, his face flushing with honest shame.
What words did you feel--in your brain?" In spite of himself, Lone felt as he had when the girl had talked to him and called him Charlie.
"I've driven four horses--I guess I can drive two, all right." "Well, you ain't going to," Brit stated with a flat finality that abruptly ended the argument.
"Dad looked exactly as if he'd opened the door to a book agent when I came.
But their glassy shine made them terrible.
Then he leaned across the front seat and added impressively, "Bear one thing in mind, Al.
"That's for you, Lone Morgan," Al cried, as he fired again.
But when that huge blackness behind and to the left of her began to open and show a terrible brilliance within, and to close abruptly, leaving the world ink black, she was terrified.
But of course the crankiest of comedy cooks would be decently civil to _her_.
The Sawtooth Cattle Company had begun much as its neighbors had begun: with a tract of land, cattle, and the ambition for prospering.
She herself could not mourn for Frank with any sense of great personal loss, but it was different with her dad.
Behind the store and the post-office and the blacksmith shop, on the brow of the low hill around whose point the train had disappeared, were houses with bay windows and porches absolutely out of keeping with the West.
He did not like to ask about her father, fearing that the news would be bad.
Disordered nerves, which rest and proper medical care will soon remedy." He looked at Lone.
There is excitement and action on every page....
I heard somebody talking----" The bushes parted above a low, rocky ledge and a face peered out, smiling good-humoredly.
He stopped perforce, and Lorraine was out of the saddle and running down to the trail before she quite realized what she was doing.
"Dad," she said wheedlingly, "I think you might scare up something that I can really ride.
"IT TAKES NERVE JUST TO HANG ON" 100 IX.
"Whoa, you rattle-headed fool," he admonished, when the horse snorted and backed a step or two as he approached.
CHAPTER SEVEN THE MAN AT WHISPER Brit Hunter finished washing the breakfast dishes and put a stick of wood into the broken old cook-stove that had served him and Frank for fifteen years and was feeling its age.
It was in a restaurant that he had first met his wife.
The Warfield car went on, lurching over the inequalities of the narrow road.
It read simply: "Your brekfast is in the oven we wont be back till dark maby.
Inevitably it became necessary now and then to stop a mouth that was ready to speak unwelcome truths.
There ain't a telephone closer'n the Sawtooth, and that there's a good twenty mile and more from where Brit was hurt.
There, indeed, he might hope for help.
She met it with impatient disfavor founded chiefly upon the young man's need of a decent hair-cut, a less flowery tie and a tailored suit.
But Swan, when Lone looked up again, was climbing straight away from the little searching party; and even though he seemed tireless on foot, he could not perform miracles.
I wonder if you can let me have some," he said, still speaking too carelessly to reassure her.
She hated the pillars where the paint was peeling badly.
She did not believe that he was wholly unconscious, for she had seen his eyelids tighten and his lips twitch several times, when she was waiting for Swan.
Now we make stretcher, I think, and carry him home.
At dusk he got his call.
If he does, we'll say I'm out with you after coyotes, and we stopped here for a meal.
He hasn't been peeled yet--or he hadn't, the last I heard of him.
"I been tramping since daylight.
But I wish you would, to the extent of forgetting that you saw--or thought you saw--anything that night in Rock City." Lorraine shivered and covered her eyes swiftly with one hand.
I told yuh so once.
When she was not mumbling incoherent nonsense she was laughing hoarsely at the plight she was in, and after that she would hold both hands to her chest and moan in a way that made Lone grind his teeth.
After that I knew who was the Sawtooth killer that I came here to find." "You thought you knew," Lone corrected calmly.
"There's a stock trail part way down from the top where it swings off from the divide to Wilder Creek." Swan, walking just behind Hawkins, moved up a pace.
If you want to help at that----" "I do," said Raine quietly, getting to her feet.
Do you want your supper now?
For in that third year she worked her way enthusiastically through a sixteen-episode movie serial called "The Terror of the Range." She was past mistress of romance by that time.
They had left the timber line now and had come to the lip of the canyon itself.
I don't see where Lone goes to, all the time.
If you use your brains you can outwit them, and if you have any nerve----" Brit made a sound somewhat like a snort.
She heard the crash repeated in diminuendo farther down in the canyon.
"Just keep those thoughts outa your head, Swan.
If Lorraine had not been positive that this was actually a cattle ranch in Idaho, she never would have believed that they were anything but day laborers.
Indeed, Warfield had protested his unselfishness in the matter too much and too often to have deceived the dullest man who owned the slightest suspicion of him.
It should not be difficult to find it, if he followed the road and watched closely the bushes on either side.
"I suppose if I told dad I could drive that team as well as he can, he'd just look at me and think I was crazy," she thought resentfully and gave the broom a spiteful fling toward a presumptuous hen that had approached too closely.
Then Lorraine Hunter, hardened to the sight of crimes committed for picture values only, realized sickeningly that she had just looked upon a real murder,--the cold-blooded killing of a man.
Lorraine thanked him graciously and departed for the livery stable.
I've got some riding to do." "I'll wash the dishes, and then I maybe will think quicker than that coyote.
Al hailed him with a laughing epithet.
Hunter lost the perspective of romance and adventure, and shed tears because there was sufficient mineral in the water to yellow her week's washing, and for various other causes which she had never foreseen and to which she refused to resign herself.
Lorraine scarcely hesitated before she chose the main trail which crossed the creek.
They would laugh at me, and it is not right to laugh at those things." "I'm not laughing.
THE END [Illustration] NOVELS BY B.M.
She had him wet from his ears to his tail, and he was breathin' like that Ford at the ranch.
He unrolled the slicker and laid out a piece of bacon, a package of coffee, a small coffeepot, bannock and salt.
You want to watch yourself." Swan followed him out, closing the door carefully behind him.
That's too bad he's killed.
He was keeping hid from the trail--I think because Raine was riding along, this morning, and he's following.
Bower= GOOD INDIAN LONESOME LAND THE UPHILL CLIMB THE GRINGOS THE RANCH AT THE WOLVERINE THE FLYING U'S LAST STAND JEAN OF THE LAZY A THE PHANTOM HERD THE HERITAGE OF THE SIOUX STARR, OF THE DESERT THE LOOKOUT MAN CABIN FEVER SKYRIDER THE THUNDER BIRD RIM O' THE WORLD THE QUIRT [Illustration: Al's gun spoke, and Warfield sagged at the knees and the shoulders, and slumped to the ground.
Brit's voice rose in a furious denunciation of Bill Warfield, punctuated by two shots and followed almost immediately by the senator.
Lone did not hesitate in naming the sex, for the wet sand held the imprint cleanly, daintily.
"We can't run down the man that got Fred Thurman, supposin' he was killed, as you say.
Ay don't tell too moch." His cheerful smile brought a faint response from Senator Warfield.
He thanked her, smiling down at her quizzically.
She had no knowledge of a bad man who was human in spots without being repentant.
Swan swallowed and looked helplessly at the doctor, who stood smoothing his chin.
The Quirt ranch was almost surrounded by Sawtooth land of one sort or another, though there was scant grazing in the early spring on the sagebrush wilderness to the south.
Forbidden subjects are like other forbidden things: they have a way of making themselves very conspicuous.
Then I'll make love to you afterwards.
Not another question would she ask of Echo, Idaho, which was flatter and more insipid than the drinking water in the tin "cooler" in the waiting room.
"The journey to Shoshone would be a considerable strain on the patient in his present condition.
"We shouldn't be talking about it, dad--the doctor said we mustn't.
They've throwed a fence across the pass through from Sugar Spring to Whisper.
Brit was obliged to "take it out of her" with the rein ends and his full repertoire of opprobrious epithets before he could cramp the wagon and head them down the trail again.
The news had spread as such news will, even in a country so sparsely settled as the Sawtooth.
For a long while--how many years Brit could not remember--they had been living in Los Angeles.
And his hat was brown.
"No, he is not a mass of broken bones, I am happy to say," he reported gravely to Lorraine afterwards.
"You can take mine," Jim offered.
One man rode on the seat, driving the team which walked slowly, oddly, reminding Lorraine of a funeral procession.
When he lifted her off his horse at the foreman's cottage she was whispering things no one could understand.
Too shapely for a boy, too small for any one but a child or a woman with little feet, and with the point at the toes proclaiming the fashion of the towns, Lone guessed at once that she was a town girl, a stranger, probably,--and that she had passed since the rain; which meant since daylight.
He could see that the girl was burning up with fever, and he could hear her voice growing husky,--could hear, too, the painful laboring of her breath.
If I can borrow half a dozen matches, Miss Hunter, I'll be going." Lorraine looked at him again doubtfully and went after the matches.
Hawkins hurrying to Lorraine with a whisky toddy the cook had mixed for her.
She hated the meek little Filipino boy who swept that ugly hall every morning.
He divided the grouse so that one part had the meaty breast and legs, and the other the back and wings.
"It don't make a darn bit of difference to me whether I ride in front of you or behind.
All the hairbreadth escapes of the heroine of the movie serial were hers, adapted by her native logic to fit within the bounds of possibility,--though I must admit they bulged here and there and threatened to overlap and to encroach upon the impossible.
He looked back at Al, whose eyes were ablaze with resentment.
He had liked Fred Thurman, and what Lorraine had told him went much deeper than she knew.
He slid into a juniper thicket and sat down looking very perplexed and very permanently placed there.
"You come back, Lone, and let Yack take a damn good smell of you.
Lorraine opened the door marked LANDLADY, and closed it with a slam intended to remind her mother that bickerings in the hall were less desirable than the odor of fried onions.
In the early days, Brit had had a wife and two children, but the wife could not endure the loneliness of the ranch nor the inconvenience of living in a two-room log cabin.
Up the canyon and over the divide on the west shoulder of Bear Top was a trail to the open country beyond.
What I can do, a horse can do.
But he did not take it away; in the wilderness one learns to save useless things in the faint hope that some day they may become useful.
Brit Hunter's girl, is she?
And then, a little way down the hill, something went wrong." Frank seemed trying to reconstruct the accident from Lorraine's description.
Al Woodruff, however, did not love her.
Lone Morgan, riding early to the Sawtooth to see the foreman about getting a man for a few days to help replace a bridge carried fifty yards downstream by a local cloudburst, would not have changed places with a millionaire.
"It sometimes makes a man's head think better when he has been hurt, if he can drink a little water or something." Brit swallowed and turned his face away from the tilted bottle.
If Hawkins and Senator Warfield came after them, her plight would be worse than ever.
"I was back up on the ridge, and I saw a team turn into the Quirt trail from the ford.
The sight of it stirred Lorraine out of her dumb horror.
Brit, he oughta know enough to rough-lock down that hill.
The telegram, she suspected, was the one she had sent to her dad announcing the date of her arrival.
"Dad, if you knew the stunts I've done in the last three years!
"You never seen me crawl out from under no wagon.
But are you _sure_ it wasn't you?
If you will kindly tell me which road I must take----" "There she is," the man stated flatly, and pointed across the railroad track to where a sandy road drew a yellowish line through the sage, evidently making for the hills showing hazily violet in the distance.
He refused to scramble back into the trail, preferring to sit where he was, or since Lorraine made that too uncomfortable, to stand where he had been sitting.
If you want to stop the damnest steal in the country, tie a can onto that irrigation scheme of his.
She thrilled when she saw how watchful he was, how he lifted his head and listened to every little night sound.
Jack went sniffing obediently in wide circles, crossing unconcernedly Lone's footprints while he trotted back and forth.
Al's hand slipped from the bridle down to the reins, and still holding Snake, still holding the gun muzzle toward her, still looking her straight in the eyes, he threw his right leg over the cantle of his saddle and stepped off his horse.
"I shall go back now and milk the cows and do chores." "But if your shoulder is lame, Swan, how can you?" Lorraine asked in her unexpected fashion.
She doesn't interest me, one way or the other." "She seems to interest Bob a whole lot," Al said maliciously.
It was for her more than for himself that he was thinking.
It doesn't concern me in the slightest degree." Why, she thought confusedly, must she _always_ be reminded of that horrible place of rocks?
But because she could see that she made life a little more comfortable for her dad, because she felt that he needed her, she would stay and assure herself over and over that she was staying merely because she was too proud to go back to the old life and own the West a failure.
So I eat my supper, and then I get the lantern and I go look.
Al had backed his horse, and Senator Warfield was stepping on the starter.
You don't have time to ride over here, get some other horse and ride back to the Quirt after Frank was killed.
But he did not know what more he could say without telling her what must not be told.
"Don't lie to me, Raine--it ain't going to help any.
He stepped back, picked up Snake's reins and mounted his own horse.
Everything all straight--and then, here she comes up----" "If you know how to stop a woman's mouth, Al, you can make a million a month telling other men." Senator Warfield smiled at him.
We never call it just the TJ." "Oh," said Lorraine, relieved.
"Now," she said to the cat, "if three or four bandits would appear on the ridge, over there, and come tearing down into the immediate foreground, jump the gate and surround the house, I'd know this was the real thing.
Yack, he gives you a good alibi." "I sure am glad we took the time to trail that horse, then," Lone remarked, while Swan was removing the handcuffs.
He seemed to take it for granted now that she would stay where she was.
You dreamed the whole thing, and the way you talked to me was so wild, folks would say you're crazy if they heard you tell it.
"You didn't see Frank coming anywhere, did you?
The Northwestern cattle country has never had a better chronicler in fiction of its deeds and its people than B.M.
I'm leaving to-morrow or the next day--just as soon as I can pack my trunk and get a Pullman berth." She did not wait to see the relief in her mother's face contradicting the expostulations on her lips.
Lorraine came to the doorway and looked in at him.
"Loney, take a damn Swede and give him something he believes, and you could pull his teeth before you pull that notion from his thick head.
Lorraine went to him and knelt beside him, slipping an arm around his neck while she hid her face on his shoulder.
I ain't supe'stitious enough fer that." "The doctor he comes, don't he?" Swan retorted.
Nothing but jack rabbits and little, twittery birds moved through the sage, though she watched hungrily for horsemen.
She would have made an ideal witness against Lorraine, her very sympathy carrying conviction of Lorraine's need of it.
An accident to a man driving a loaded wagon down the Spirit Canyon grade had a diabolic plausibility that no man in the country could question.
"I'll bet you could put up some fight, if you had to," he commented.
She struck Yellowjacket with her quirt and sent him sidling past the wagon and the tricky Caroline, too stubborn to answer her dad when he called after her that she had better ride behind the load.
"Dad!" "What do you want, Raine?" "Dad, was--has any one around here died, lately?" "Died?
At her age it is pitiful.
That's all that'll ever be proved, and if you can't prove nothing else you better keep your mouth shut." Lorraine sprang up and stood facing her father, every nerve taut with protest.
"He rode off just after dinner.
Calling a doctor, for instance, seemed to Lorraine rather far-fetched an application of what was at best but a debatable theory.
I could see you sometimes in the trail.
"Well, you ain't going to holler it all over the country," Al flung back at her over his shoulder.
"Took the wrong turn after she left the corrals here," Warfield commented relievedly.
I ain't got any use for a damn fool, no way yuh look at it." "Well, there's the TJ--they been here a long while, and they ain't packin' any lead, and they ain't getting out." "Well, say, lemme tell yuh something.
They're bad medicine." He mounted John Doe and rode away, his eyes downcast, his quirt slapping absently the weeds along the trail.
And Frank Johnson's pipe smells to high heaven, and I hate him in the house and 'the boys'--hmhm!
But I would not like it if everybody maybe finds it out that I do that, and makes talk about it." He looked straight at Jim and Sorry, and those two unprepossessing ones looked at each other and at Swan and at the doctor and at each other again, and headed for the door.
They're heading for the ranch, all right.
It had a clear resonance that once heard would not have been easily forgotten.
Maybe you see some men ride backwards on a horse?" Brit looked at him uncomprehendingly.
CHAPTER TWENTY KIDNAPPED Lorraine had once had a nasty fall from riding down hill at a gallop.
She was topping the last climb when she saw the team tied to the trees, and at the same moment she caught a glimpse of a man who crawled out from under the load of posts and climbed the slope farther on.
It's fight to the finish, always.
The affair had progressed appreciably in her absence, it would appear.
The sky was becoming overcast.
Lone was no coward, but neither was he a fool.
A hundred yards or so down the slope beyond Rock City he pulled up short with a "What the hell!" that did not sound profane, but merely amazed.
By golly, I raised that dog to trail, and he _trails_, you bet!
"Jim and Sorry oughta git the post holes all dug to-day.
"Skinner knows this trail," he told Lorraine.
He held out on me for that job--so I'm collecting five hundred dollars' worth of fun right now.
After that he retreated as carefully as he had approached.
He learned that four picked men had started for the Pass, and that they would reach the divide by daybreak.
"I just now came from home.
It should kill a man.
She must have stayed there all night, for the scuffed soil was dry where her body had rested, and her purse, caught in the juniper bush close by, was sodden with rain.
He moved so that his back was to Lorraine, and still holding the wrist he made a small, clean cut in the flesh.
The sight of the supper preparations made her hungrier than she had ever been in her life before.
"You think so, because you don't fight," she cried hotly.
We figured it out together that the first crack of thunder had sounded like shooting, and that's what started her off.
When he had proven up on his claim they would probably buy him out and have the water still.
It was so exactly like some movie thrill, planned carefully in advance, rehearsed perhaps under the critical eye of the director, and done now with the camera man turning calmly the little crank and counting the number of film feet the scene would take.
Swan looked up at him and looked away again, reaching for a cloth to wipe the spilled coffee from the table.
Her dad and the big, heavy-set man whom he called Frank, seemed uncomfortably aware of their deficiencies and were pitiably anxious to make her feel welcome,--and failed.
"Sorry, he got back two hours ago, and he said the cor'ner would be right out.
He's played a lone hand, Swan, right from the start, unless I'm badly mistaken.
He was afraid to appear to hesitate, so he laughed his quiet little chuckle while he scrambled mentally for a plausible lie.
Falling into Spirit Canyon is like getting dragged by a horse.
"Not always I can do that.
You cover your murders under the pretense of accidents.
Come on, you yella-livered bonehead!" Snake went on, urged now and then by Al's quirt.
When the time came--as even Lorraine saw that it must--when Snake refused to attempt a steep slope, Al still said nothing.
"I caught a terrible cold," she said, laughing nervously.
How'd _I_ know she was in there among them rocks?
It never occurred to him therefore that he was slated for an accident that day if the details could be conveniently arranged.
They reached the gate in time to meet Warfield and Hawkins face to face.
I musta left it hanging on a bush right close to where I was workin'." Brit's grunt signified assent, and Frank went out.
I told her to take a good long ride and settle her nerves.
"H-how did you know?" "How did it happen?" Brit's eyes were terrible.
She might, if she were patient, run to the horse when Al's back was turned, she thought.
"No," he said in the tone of acknowledged defeat, "we ain't cowards, Raine.
"You're playing safe, Swan, but if that dog of yours is any good, you'll have a change of heart pretty quick.
SWAN TRAILS A COYOTE 192 XVI.
It stands for fiction filled with the spirit of ranch life in the northwest.--_Boston Herald_.
Even the sinister undercurrent of antagonism against the Quirt could not whip her emotions feeling that she was doing anything more than live the restricted, sordid little life of a poorly equipped ranch.
"She was out of her head, all right, and talking wild, but I laid it to her being sick and scared.
John Doe, he's pretty tired.
Already the stars to the west were blotted out, and the absolute stillness of the atmosphere frightened her more than the big, dark wilderness itself.
"Frank's coming, dad," she announced relievedly, "and I'll go and get the mail and the fruit." She ran down the path again, almost light-hearted in her relief from that vague terror which had held her for the past hour.
The cowboys appeared in tailored suits and drifted away.
No father, of any type whatever, came forward to claim her.
"I shall take great care not to go all around the country telling people my dreams.
He seemed to be making for the head of Spirit Canyon, on the side toward Bear Top.
Once he took the time to examine the thongs on her ankles, apparently wishing to make sure that she was not uncomfortable.
Al stopped her by the simple method of reaching out his left hand and catching Snake by the cheek-piece of the bridle.
He did say he'd pay me after Brit was dead, but it looks like he's going to pull through, so I ain't counting much on getting my money outa Warfield.
The man fumbled in his pocket and produced smoking material.
"If you will carry the front," said Swan politely, "it will not be heavy for you like this.
I can only guess at what she expected to find there in the person of a cattle-king father, but whatever it was she did not find it.
To the south was the sagebrush, a soft, gray-green carpet under the sun.
He had never asked questions, he had never surmised or gossiped.
"You're the one they call Loney?" "When they're feeling good toward me.
Nor had the promised saddle horse materialized.
"There, now, I'm not going to hurt yuh at all," he soothed.
"It don't strike me as being any subject for you fellows to make remarks about, anyway," he advised Pop firmly.
"Why, where's Frank?" she asked, going up to where Lone was dismounting in silence.
It was what is called a full-stamped saddle, with the popular wild-rose design on skirts and cantle.
Hawkins and Warfield had come from the house and were approaching the stable.
BOWER WITH FRONTISPIECE BY ANTON OTTO FISCHER [Illustration] BOSTON LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 1920 _Copyright, 1920,_ BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.
A few horses were grazing there, the sun striking their sides with the sheen of satin.
She acted kinda edgy." Senator Warfield and his foreman exchanged glances for which Lone could have killed them.
Help had been that close, and she had not known it, unless---- "If anything happened there last night, she could have seen it from here," he decided, and immediately put the thought away from him.
"I--I don't know this horse, and if he starts running the boys might not catch him in time.
If he would only keep along within rifle shot and remain hidden, he would show real brains, Lone thought.
Warfield, having a delicate errand to perform and knowing how much depended upon first impressions, pulled up eagerly when he recognized Lone.
It was no voice that she had ever heard before.
After an interminable time which measured three hours on her watch, she came to an abrupt descent into a creek bed, down the middle of which the creek itself was flowing swiftly.
She was lifting her skirts to wade the creek when the click of hoofs striking against rocks sent her scurrying to cover in a senseless fear.
And it had a rock in it last night, and the blood shows that it was used to hit Frank behind the ear.
"I COULDA LOVED THIS LITTLE GIRL" 284 XXIV.
Swan glanced down at Brit, saw that his eyes were closed, ducked his head from under the looped rope and went to Lorraine.
I quit them when they tried to get Brit Hunter.
Can you tell me just how the accident occurred?" "Excuse me, doctor--and Miss," Swan diffidently interrupted.
She must reach the substantial shelter of buildings, the comforting presence of men and women.
Don't forget that, Miss Spitfire.
I could go do chores for Fred Thurman if nobody's there.
"If I'm all that," he told her coolly, "you can figure out about what'll happen to you if you _don't_ marry me.
"Dad, what _is_ Whisper?" "Whisper's a camp up against a cliff, over west of here.
He said Frank should have been here long ago.
I've got to say for Hawkins that aside from stealing cattle off the nesters and helping make evidence against some that's in jail, Hawkins never done any dirty work.
Took him close to all day to make the trip--and Bob, he claims to hate women!" "So would I, if I'd got stung for fifty thousand.
"You don't tell anybody, Lone." "No, I won't tell anybody--and I'd advise you not to," Lone repeated grimly.
Still, Snake held his own better than even Jim would have believed, and carried Lorraine up over Granite Ridge and down into the Sawtooth flat almost as quickly as Lorraine expected him to do.
A nesting grouse flew chuttering out from under a juniper bush, alighted a short distance away and went limping and dragging one wing before them, cheeping piteously.
Swan examined the tracks, and Lone sat on his horse watching him.
And he shot him--oh, can't you _do_ something?" "Yes, yes, they're after him right now.
Suddenly it was whooping across the sage and flinging up clouds of dust from the road.
YACK DON'T LIE 216 XVIII.
You're just letting yourself _feel_ old.
At the top he was forced to drive a full half mile beyond the piled posts to a flat large enough to turn around.
"The Swede followed along on the ridge, and he didn't see anything," he volunteered, before Warfield could question him.
He's maybe gone over to the Sawtooth, and that's farther than you can walk." "I can walk all day and all night, when I need to go like that.
Say, you didn't see that bay I was halter-breaking, did yuh, Al?
And when them poor suckers gets their crops all in, and at the point where they've got to have water or lose out, something'll happen to the supply.
Lone did not ask whose saddle it was, nor did Swan name the owner.
It's one of them accidents that you've got to figure out for yourself." "Oh, do something!" Lorraine cried distractedly.
"If you was a boy, I'd set you up as a lawyer," he said with an attempt at playfulness.
"A coyote's crossed up there, and I maybe find his tracks.
They had offered absolutely no interest or "color" to the place, and the owner's son, Bob Warfield, had driven her over to the Quirt in a Ford and had seemed exactly like any other big, good-looking young man who thought well of himself.
"That judge don't get busy pretty quick, I'm maybe jumping my job.
When he, too, wanted to know why Lone had come and gone again in such a hurry, Lorraine felt all the courage go out of her at once.
We seldom take hikes of less than twenty miles.
"I don't mean movie stuff, honestly I don't.
"She's on the table--come on in." "I don't know if you're home with the door shut like that," Swan explained, coming up to the cabin.
"Jump, dad!" she called and got no answer.
"But there aren't any bandits, and dad hasn't any gold or anything else worth stealing--Ket, if dad isn't a miser, he's _poor_!
Vjolmar, whom he thought could better explain the matter.
Near the upper shelf a row of nails held Swan's coffee cups,--four of them, thick and white, such as cheap restaurants use.
It was almost worth the walk, she told herself hearteningly.
Britton Hunter," but he made no comment on the relationship.
Later he learned from Minnie that she had freed herself from him, and that she was keeping boarders and asking no odds of him.
"You noticed, then, that she was not quite--herself?" Senator Warfield used his friendly, confidential tone on Jim.
Produced by Kathryn Lybarger, Joseph R.
She was certain that she and Swan had prevented him from climbing down into the canyon and making sure that her dad did not live to tell what mischance had overtaken him.
She wondered if it were really true that Swan had sent a call through space for a doctor; straightway she would call herself crazy for even considering for a moment its possibility.
Girl being abducted in fear of what she can tell.
When he had gone half a mile or so upstream he found a place where he could wash his hands without wetting his moccasins, returned to the rocky hillside and took off the clumsy footgear and stowed them away under his coat.
But he wanted to have the deputies there.
THE MAN AT WHISPER 85 VIII.
Lone started a little and pulled up.
There's goin' to be hell a-poppin' if I live to git outa this bed." Lorraine stooped over him, and her eyes were almost as terrible as were Brit's.
Brit was the type of man who is never quiet unless he is asleep or too ill to get out of bed.
If she were a boy she would be riding on that sack of hay tied to the "hounds" for a seat.
Jack he fed and left on watch outside the cabin, so that he could without risk keep open the door to the dugout.
"Sure, you can find out, if you use your eyes and do a little thinking," Lone replied.
The fence is between, and they don't hurt you anyway." "That horse with the white face--I saw it--and when the man struck it with his quirt it went past me, running like that and dragging--_oh-h_!" She leaned against the bluff side, her face covered with her two palms.
And Lone suspected that, given the opportunity, Bob Warfield would have fallen in love with Lorraine.
The nose of the hill hid for a moment her dad, and in that moment she heard a crash and knew what had happened.
He discussed with Lone the possibility of making Al talk,--the chance of his implicating the Sawtooth.
And she never mentioned Bob, nor anybody else excepting some fellow she called Charlie.
"You're pretty quiet." Lone roused himself.
_You_ won't see none of it--they ain't such fools.
He had seemed to be in pain and to be trying to hide the fact from her.
And when you've proved it," he added bitterly, "you got to have officers that'll carry out the law instead of using it to hog-tie yuh." His futile, dull anger surged up again.
Those hills formed the only break in the monotonous gray landscape, and Lorraine was glad that her journey would take her close to them.
The senator was saddle-sore as well as hungry, and his temper showed in his blood-shot eyes.
The human mind is wonderfully resilient, but readjustment comes slowly after a shock.
He did not underestimate the influence of Senator Warfield.
That's about the worst thing you can do." Lorraine gave him a grateful glance and a faint attempt at a smile, and rode up the trail she always took,--the trail where she had met Lone that day when he returned her purse, the trail that led to Fred Thurman's ranch and to Sugar Spring and, if you took a certain turn at a certain place, to Granite Ridge and beyond.
Yellowjacket, I may explain, owned a Roman nose, a pendulous lower lip and drooping eyelids.
We better take a look along here for tracks." Swan stared at him curiously, but he did not speak, and the two went on more slowly, their glances roving here and there along the trail edge, looking for footprints.
"What the hell!" Lone ejaculated under his breath.
Finally he drew the coat back over the head and shoulders, placed each stone exactly as he had found it and went up to the horse, examining the saddle rather closely.
They would do that, he reasoned, if they were sincere in wanting to overtake Lorraine and in their ignorance that they were also following Al Woodruff.
You come with me, Lone.
All the fighting the Sawtooth does is done under cover.
Two weeks had set their mark on her also.
Swan climbed swiftly, seeming to take no thought of where he put his feet, yet never once slipping or slowing.
It takes too long to ride a horse to Echo from this ranch, so I call on my mother, and I tell my mother a doctor must come quick to this ranch.
"Hawkins told me she had some sort of hallucination that she had seen a man killed at Rock City, when she was wandering around in that storm," Warfield went on in a careless, gossipy tone.
We know two places where he didn't go with her, and from here is two more trails he could take.
There's bear in there and lion and lynx, and I'd hate to see you chawed.
You can't travel these trails at a long lope with yore hair flyin' out behind and--and all that damn foolishness.
"I guess those horses could be turned loose," he began without prelude.
And you couldn't have taken me so easy if I'd been the man you wanted.
He freed her hands, and Lorraine immediately slapped him in the face and reached for his gun.
I've been a Sawtooth man, and a fellow kinda hates to throw down his outfit deliberate.
They have holes in the ground, don't they?" "Yes.
He set her down on the side where the smoke would be least likely to blow her way and proceeded to dress the grouse, stripping off skin and feathers together.
Lone felt the flush in his cheeks, which angered him to the point of speaking curtly.
They rode on to Fred Thurman's ranch, dismounted at Warfield's suggestion--which amounted to a command--and began a careful search of the premises.
Oh, help Swan carry dad in!
I expect you to protect our interests, of course.
He had a rock in his handkerchief.
In two minutes he was out of sight, and Lone rode on moodily, trying not to think of Fred Thurman, trying to shut from his mind the things that wild-eyed, hoarse-voiced girl had told him.
Skinner rolled over twice, got up and shook himself with a satisfied snort and went away to feed.
In that case Senator Warfield would cry loudest for justice.
"I dunno what you mean.
They brought up at the edge of the road nearly a quarter of a mile nearer Echo than the place where Frank's body had been found.
To him she observed that Frank was an hour late, and Swan, whistling softly to Jack--Lorraine was surprised to hear how closely the call resembled the chirp of a bird--strode away without so much as a pretense at excuse.
A blaze-faced horse was standing a short rifle-shot away, bridled and with an empty saddle.
Her father would not talk again as he had talked that night.
She was afraid of him as she feared the lightning; she feared his pitiless attitude toward human life.
"I simply refuse to ride this comedy animal another mile," she declared with some heat.
There I can get horses and a wagon, and you will not have to carry so far.
Her father called to her fretfully, and she went in to him again and told him what Sorry had said about the cracked doubletree, and persuaded him to let her bring his supper at once, and to have the fruit later when Frank arrived.
Swan had shot him, and two of the deputies who had been there through half of Al's bitter talk.
He did not follow the trail, but struck straight across an outcropping ledge, descended to Granite Creek and strode along next the hill where the soil was gravelly and barren.
He still had that tightened look around his mouth which spelled pain.
He's on the warpath right, and he's got his gun right handy." "It is not necessary to search the cabin," Senator Warfield answered stiffly.
"OH, I COULD KILL YOU!" 264 XXII.
There had been too many killings already, he asserted in his naive way; the sooner Al Woodruff was locked up, the safer the country would be.
She saw the other man, with a dry branch in his hand, dragging it across the road where it ran between the two rocks.
I didn't want you comin' back on me for trying to keep their feet outa the trough.
For months Brit's wife was too angry and spiteful to write.
Prunes stewed so that there was not one single wrinkle in them--Lorraine could scarcely believe they were prunes until she tasted them.
I didn't even have sense enough to tell you what ranch I was trying to find, did I?
"That's like Al," Lone commented drily.
She may have wandered off on some other trail, in which case her life as well as her reason is in danger." Lone did not answer at once.
They could not have known of Al Woodruff's intentions toward Lorraine, else they would have kept themselves in the background and would not have risked the failure of their own plan.
The full length of Skyline Meadow he ran, jumping the small beginning of Wilder Creek with one great leap that scarcely interrupted the beautiful rhythm of his stride.
Several times this was necessary.
We've got to get him home, somehow----" "At my cabin is blankets," Swan told her briskly.
"You may see dad, if you like, while I get the list of things the doctor ordered.
Had his foot caught in the stirrup.
He'll be gentle if I lead him.
If you know anything at all about cattlemen, you will know that the Quirt was a poor man's ranch, when I tell you that Hunter and Johnson milked three cows and made butter, fed a few pigs on the skim milk and the alfalfa stalks which the saddle horses and the cows disdained to eat, kept a flock of chickens, and sold what butter, eggs and pork they did not need for themselves.
I was just telling this horse of mine all I was going to do to him.
I'm afraid of him." After awhile, when she had finished her breakfast and was putting up a lunch, Lorraine picked up the nameless gray cat and holding its head between her slim fingers, looked at it steadily.
"Afterwards I told her what she'd been saying, and she seemed to kinda remember it, like a bad dream she'd had.
As to the Sawtooth, forty thousand acres comprised their holdings under patents, deeds and long-time leases from the government.
With Lorraine's assistance he carried Brit into Thurman's cabin, laid him, stretcher and all, on the bed and hurried out to catch and harness the team of work horses.
"He mighta busted 'er pullin' through that sand hollow.
Swan, then, had availed himself of Lone's belittlement of him and was living down to it.
When the light came again the man who had been shot was not altogether on the ground.
I--I want my back against something solid, all the time, so that nothing can creep up behind.
But you will help me keep it steady." Lorraine was past discussing anything.
"I think you better forget it," he said fiercely.
"Dad knows us to-day, but of course he's terribly hurt and can't talk much.
And it was when I told Warfield I was afraid she might set folks talking that he began to get cold feet.
But Skinner walked to the farther edge of the meadow before he stopped, and Al Woodruff never turned his back to a foe.
Then he brought it to the cabin, put it on the floor and set the Little Feller inside it.
"You should see me wrestle with somebody.
She ran, and as she ran she wept aloud like a child and called for her father.
"Wonder if she changed off and rode that loose horse," Hawkins said once, when the tracks were plain in the soft soil of the creek bank.
The man he had trailed had mounted and ridden toward the ridge to the west.
I've made up my mind that I've got to have you with me--always.
Hawkins lived within her four walls and called that, her "spere," and spoke of her husband as "he." You know the type of woman.
The three others stooped, stared with tightened lips at the bloodless incision, straightened and looked at one another dumbly.
He rode toward it slowly.
"No use in letting this get out," he said confidentially.
You wanted to bump me off, but you wanted to do it in a way that'd put you in right with the public.
My home is at the Quirt.
The Sawtooth's paid him for playing it, that's all." "Warfield, he's the man I want," Swan confided.
Then, chiefly because Lone's impatience finally influenced him, he set out to see where Al had gone.
I've quit the Sawtooth." Brit's eyes cleared and studied Lone's face.
"Find him, Yack," said Swan, standing straight again.
"A man can get along without lots of things, but he's plumb lost without matches.
She knew it, she had read it in the inscrutable, level look of Senator Warfield, in the half cringing, wholly subservient manner of Hawkins when he listened to his master.
Lone, he observed, had another.
I'm getting good and tired of this meek business!" "We-ell," Sorry drawled amiably as she went past him, "playin' rabbit-under-a-bush mebby don't look purty, but it's dern good life insurance." "A coward's policy," Lorraine taunted him over her shoulder, and went to see what her father wanted.
"Who're them others?" he cried harshly.
The left scapula is fractured, likewise the clavicle, and there is a compound fracture of the femur.
She was in amongst the rocks where she was trying to keep outa the rain.
"They'll keep it to theirselves, whether they believe it or not," Frank assured Swan in his labored whisper.
He only hoped he would have time, and that luck would be with him.
She seemed to have had a shock of some kind.
"I'll go with you," Senator Warfield offered suavely and kept alongside.
Poor girl, I wish that I had been here when she first came," said the senator, as he went to meet Hawkins, who was riding up from the corrals leading two horses--one for Lorraine, which shows what was his opinion of Snake.
"Raine!" Brit's voice was very weak, but Lorraine jumped as though a trumpet had bellowed suddenly in her ear.
Then Swan would look up quickly at the horse, seem reassured when he saw that the animal was not watching anything at a distance, and return to his curious task.
"If Al was a talker he wouldn't be holding the job he's got," Lone argued.
"I want to know how far I can go.
I was only out for a little ride." She thanked him again for the trouble he had taken and rode away.
Nothing like sticking to an idea till you know it's wrong.
"They've started on the Quirt now," he told himself with foreboding.
"I'm not doing anything at all, right now, so I can just as well help out as not.
The horses conversed with sundry nose-rubbings, nibbled idly at convenient brush tips, and wondered no doubt why their riders were so silent.
Going to make a play at being neighborly, I reckon." "You bet I want to see Warfield," Swan assented rather eagerly and called Jack, who had nosed around the spot where Al had waited so long and was now trotting along the ridge on the next lap of Al's journey.
The author has put some real sentiment into a story that gives a rapidly filmed "movie" of Western life.--_Philadelphia Public Ledger_.
Al Woodruff, if the four men met unexpectedly, would also take it for granted that he was one of them.
"Well, she ain't far off then," Hawkins comforted himself.
There is justice in this country, there _must_ be.
If she pictured Echo, Idaho, as being a replica of the "set" used in the movie serial, can you wonder?
"I found a half bottle of whisky in his pocket--but Swan's right.
You know the girl, don't you?" "Yas, Ay know her pretty good," grinned Swan.
What about Al--the man from Whisper?
You can't," he added, "be sure of anything where a demented person is concerned.
Jack appeared to understand why his trailing was interrupted and sniffed the bank until he picked up the scent again.
Of course the patient would pull through!
Three cowpunchers came running and hindered him a good deal in carrying her into the house, and the foreman's wife ran excitedly from one room to the other, asking questions and demanding that some one do something "for pity's sake, she may be dying for all you know, while you stand there gawping like fool-hens." "She was out all night in the rain--got lost, somehow.
The Sawtooth would object to it, he knew, since it cut off one of their stock trails and sent them around through rougher country.
I ain't the kind to tell all I know and some besides, Swan.
Frank was very methodical in a fussy, purposeless way, she had observed.
THE ENCHANTMENT OF LONG DISTANCE 12 III.
Nothing more'n a fight to hang on and make a living.
Johnson anywhere about?" "No, I don't believe any one is anywhere about.
"I thought it was the ranch--but they were rocks.
What made you run away from me when you saw me coming?" Lorraine continued to stare at him.
"The girl's got the only line on me," Al went on.
Your father is a good man.
It's damn funny." "Yes, it is," Lorraine admitted uncomfortably.
Do you think I'd marry a cold-blooded murderer like you?" Al turned in the saddle and looked at her intently.
They had planned to run cattle together, had their brand already recorded, and had scraped together enough money to buy a dozen young cows.
The buildings were not buildings at all.
You just get on and ride.
He was talking for your own good.
Peace--the peace of untroubled wilderness--brooded over the land.
If you are done setting bones in Mr.
Then he swung his head around and looked over his shoulder inquiringly at Al, who was coming behind, leading Snake.
He waited until Brit opened his eyes again, and then he leaned forward, holding Brit's wandering glance with his own intent gaze.
She seemed older, quieter in her ways; there were shadows in her eyes and a new seriousness in the set of her mouth.
The hitch rails were empty, and there was not a cowboy in sight.
And as the years passed and their address remained the same, Brit became fixed in the belief that the Casa Grande was all that its name implied, and perhaps more.
Well, timber was to be had, and she should have her log house, though the hauling was not going to be any sunshine, in Brit's opinion.
Dumbly, refusing to admit the significance of what she had seen, Lorraine went forward.
"I don't know where he went," she said dully.
Not one article, however small and unimportant, seemed to be out of its place, and the floors of both rooms were scrubbed whiter than any floors she had ever seen.
Swan,--Lone lifted his head and glanced toward the ridge when he thought of Swan.
Now that Raine was going to live with him, two rooms were not enough.
We knew if the girl told Brit and Frank, they'd maybe get the nerve to try and pin something on us.
Swan did not look at her directly, as had been his custom.
"You little fool, what do you think you'd do in these hills alone?
"By golly, I'm watching out now," he assented thoughtfully.
"I leave it to Jim." "You shore'n hell did!" Jim agreed, and Swan removed his big form from the door.
Ain't that yore dad callin' yuh?" Lorraine ignored the hint.
With the two dollars and a half which remained of his share of the sale, Brit sent to a mail-order house for a mackinaw coat, and felt cheated afterwards because the coat was not "wind and water proof" as advertised in the catalogue.
It isn't very flattering, but I think you're honest, anyway." Lone smiled for the first time, and she found his smile pleasant.
ANOTHER SAWTOOTH "ACCIDENT" 126 XI.
He was an oldish man with the lines of failure in his face and on his lean form the sprightly clothing of youth.
While the storm effect was perfectly _wonderful_, she thought it rather detracted from the killing.
If I'm goin' to keep yuh with me, you might just as well learn how to cook.
And if it were not for the belief among all her acquaintances that she was queening it over the cattle-king's vast domain, she would return and find work again in motion pictures.
But Swan was out here, away from reinforcements.
Little things distressed her oddly, while her father's desperate state left her numb.
He was a Sawtooth man, and he fought the enemies of the Sawtooth as matter-of-factly as a soldier will fight for his country.
The man from Whisper, whom Brit had spoken of as Al, had not returned.
Lone tried to think of some stronger argument, some appeal that would reach the girl without frightening her or causing her to distrust him.
"Lone, you mind your own business," he advised himself once.
There could not be, so long as Brit's memory remained clear, and Bob was every day reminded of the crimes his father had paid a man to commit.
And he might come back, most any time.
Brit, he reasoned, could not have known before he started that his rough-lock had been tampered with, else he would have fixed it.
I can't stay here, day after day, doing nothing but sweep and dust two rooms and fry potatoes and bacon for you at night.
With his left hand he turned back his coat and disclosed a badge pinned to the lining.
Lorraine left him to his cabbages and followed the man with the mail sack.
Yuh might be safer without it than with it." By the time she was ready, Jim was tying his horse, Snake, to the corral.
And yet--the doctor _had_ received a message that he was wanted at the Quirt, and he had arrived before his patient.
He jumped boulders, shied around buckthorn, crashed through sagebrush and so brought the girl to bay against a wet bank, where she stood shivering.
Now, I want to tell yuh one or two things that's for your own good.
Why?" Brit moved uncomfortably, but he did not take his hand away from her.
Still, she decided that she must risk that danger and give Lone a clue.
But, being a girl, it had never occurred to Brit that she might like to go,--might even be useful to him on the trip.
By that time the Sawtooth had grown to a power no poor man could hope to defeat.
He wanted to confront the coroner with the evidence he had found and the testimony which Lone could give.
I--I believe he _was_ the man.
The wind hushed as suddenly as it had whooped.
Then whispers were heard that the Sawtooth had on its pay roll men who were paid to kill and to leave no trace.
How'd you come to be walking so far?" Lorraine looked at him suspiciously.
Another, shorter figure she glimpsed as Frank and the two men stepped out and came striding hastily toward them.
"They do it for play," Swan said reassuringly.
"You're not the man I saw," she said, as if she were satisfying herself on that point.
You can't trail stock across Granite Ridge, nor them lava ledges.
He swung his horse and rode back, wondering where she could have spent the night.
We know Frank was dead not much more than one hour when we get him to the bunk-house.
Either he must sell out and move to town, or she would take the children and leave him.
If he stood aside and let violence stalk by unhindered, he was merely doing what he had been taught to do from the time he could walk.
Well!" he remonstrated with a professional briskness, when she nearly bowled him over.
You are smart--you think out every little thing.
We'll be on the trail the biggest part of our time, I expect." He took her by the arm, just as any man might have done, and led her to the fire that was beginning to crackle cheerfully.
According to Jack, Al had gone to the corral.
"You sure do know how to ride hell out of a horse," he remarked.
She's pretty sensible--when she ain't crazy." Warfield turned his horse, as if by accident, so that he was brought face to face with Lone.
At the door Swan stopped and examined the crude fastening of the door; made himself certain, by private marks of his own, that none had entered in his absence, and went in with a great sigh of satisfaction.
I'll fix dad's breakfast, and you can look after him until Lone and Swan come back.
A third picture gave her further practice in riding a real horse,--albeit an extremely docile animal called Mouse with good reason.
Any director she had ever obeyed would have sent for his assistant director and would have used language which a lady must not listen to.
He thought of the wild statement of the girl about seeing some one shoot a man and wondered briefly if there could be a basis of truth in what she said.
"Little Spitfire--I shot your Loney--but I'd have been good to you, girl.
"But I wanted you to know that I'm--with the Quirt, now." "Frank hire yuh?" "No.
Brit did not say much, but she sensed his uneasiness, and her own increased in proportion.
I'll----" She ran past them without finishing her sentence and burst incoherently into the presence of an extremely calm little man with gray whiskers and dust on the shoulders of his coat.
I want to tell you this: Of all the men you have murdered, Frank Johnson will be avenged.
His instrument was not a large one, and the dugout door was thick,--as a precaution against discovery if he should be called when some visitor chanced to be in the cabin.
What a surprise her father and all his cowboys would have when she walked in upon them!
They did not feel that they could afford to sell a cow, and two-year-old steers were out of the question.
"SHE'S A GOOD GIRL WHEN SHE AIN'T CRAZY" 38 V.
I'm just reaching out my hand like this, to get my coffee.
When she saw that he had turned his horse and was frankly following her to the house, her heart jumped wildly into her throat,--judging by the feel of it.
I found your purse where you dropped it that night you were lost.
Then she wrote acrimoniously, reminding Brit of his duty to his children.
So he came at last to the creek, swollen with the night's storm so that it was swift and dangerous.
Echo, Idaho, was a very poor imitation of all the Western sets she had ever seen.
He had attended the funerals of men shot down in their own dooryards, he had witnessed the trials of the killers.
Altogether a rattling story, that is better in conception and expression than the conventional thriller on account of its touches of real humanity in characterization.--_Philadelphia Public Ledger_.
"Now if Al catches me up in that, he'll think I know a lot I don't know, or else----" He halted his thoughts there, for that, too, was a forbidden subject.
She yawned, looked at her watch again, found that she had spent exactly six minutes in meditating upon her immediate surroundings, and fell to wondering why it was that the real West was so terribly commonplace.
He knows some one is after him in politics, but he don't know some one is after him at home.
"Do you think we ought to get out and hunt for her?" he asked.
He, too, eyed her curiously when she said "My father, Mr.
I'd have been down the Pass in another two hours and heading for the nearest county seat.
She came up to the Sawtooth ranch-houses with Snake in a lather of sweat and with her own determination unweakened to carry the war into the camp of her enemy.
"You been seeing things?" "No--I don't be seeing things, Lone.
Lone Morgan again, for she had tried it twice, and had turned back because there seemed no end to the trail twisting through the sage and rocks.
"He's all right--just a good-natured kinda cuss that wouldn't harm anybody." He glanced uneasily at the house, hoping that Lorraine was safe inside, yet fearing that she would not be safe anywhere.
After that he rode here and there, wherever he would be likely to meet a Sawtooth rider, and so at last he came upon Al Woodruff loping along the crest of Juniper Ridge.
"How'd _he_ know Brit rolled off'n the grade?
She became known on the lot as a real cattle-king's daughter, though she did not know the name of her father's brand and in all her life had seen no herd larger than the thirty head of tame cattle which were chased past the camera again and again to make them look like ten thousand, and which were so thoroughly "camera broke" that they stopped when they were out of the scene, turned and were ready to repeat the performance _ad lib_.
Jim and Sorry, Swan and Lone had not attempted to hide their belief that the Sawtooth was responsible for Frank's death, yet not one of them had hinted at the possibility of calling the sheriff, or placing the blame where it belonged.
"We may as well eat," Swan suggested.
He seemed quite satisfied with himself, quite ready to commit further crimes for sake of his own safety or desire.
They were feeding along the creek quite close to the fence, and the roan walked toward them.
The girl, he guessed shrewdly, had not wandered off the main highway, else she would not have been able to find it again.
I'll swear you in as a deputy.
Delirious young women of the silk-stocking class did not arrive at the Sawtooth every morning, and it was rumored already amongst the men that she was some looker, which naturally whetted their interest in her.
"From Yack I know we get close pretty quick.
CHAPTER EIGHT "IT TAKES NERVE JUST TO HANG ON" Brit was smoking his pipe after supper and staring at nothing, though his face was turned toward the closed door.
And if I really did see him, it wasn't my imagination at all.
But I know that Frank is dead, and that it's up to me now to see that justice is done.
You couldn't take any stock in what she said.
I'll ride out and meet him." He was mounted and gone before she realized that he was ready.
"Just what was that about, Lone?
"You had quite an experience getting out here, they tell me," he observed carelessly; too carelessly, thought Lorraine, who was well schooled in the circumlocutions of delinquent tenants, agents of various sorts and those who crave small gossip of their neighbors.
Lorraine thought longingly of Yellowjacket and his stubbornness and tried to devise some way of escape.
Warfield, he's a smart man, by golly.
Brit looked in, tested the heat with his gnarled hand to make sure that the sour-dough biscuits would not be dried to crusts, and closed the door upon them and the bacon and fried potatoes.
"Fred Thurman's been dragged to death by that damned flighty horse of his," he said.
Playin' poker with a nickel, mebby--but we manage to ante, every hand so fur." His mind returned to the grisly thing Lorraine had seen.
Lone was impressed somehow with Swan's perfect control of his speech, his thoughts, his actions.
And the next flash of lightning I saw----" "Look here, Raine.
Milk is outside in a cupboard.
He hesitated once on the trail of the horse he had followed, stopped and looked at Swan inquiringly, and whined.
And he added with just the right degree of hesitation: "I don't think she's what you'd call right crazy, Mr.
Why, you're soaked!" Perseveringly Lone urged her to the horse.
The affair had indeed progressed!
A prairie fire and the death of the worthless husband are especially well handled.--_A.
Swan did not speak of the matter again.
The sheriff's took charge of his property.
Good-by." Lone nodded and watched him climb the steep slope of the gulch on the side toward Thurman's ranch.
She had to think back, to remember that he had killed men, in order to realize her own danger.
It couldn't be anybody but Frank.
It isn't like I thought.
That's every word of sense I could get outa her.
A little farther along Swan swooped down upon a blue dotted handkerchief of the kind which men find so useful where laundries are but a name.
I thought I'd best leave him there till the coroner can view him." Swan stopped short in the trail and turned facing Lone.
Where dark overtook them, they stopped in a sheltered nook to wait, just as Swan had expected they would.
If she is not here, she is somewhere in the hills, and she should be found." "She sure ain't here," Jim asserted convincingly.
This handkerchief I have seen you pull from your pocket too many times.
She had tried to make him tell her more about the Sawtooth and had gotten nothing out of him.
Whatever he did he did alone, and he took no man into his confidence.
She stopped, turned to face the west and stared awestruck at one of those flaming sunsets which makes the desert land seem but a gateway into the ineffable glory beyond the earth.
"Do you think I am justified in the course I am taking, or don't you?" "Hunting her up?
Insensibly she quieted, watching the stars, listening to the night noises, catching now and then a whiff of smoke from Al Woodruff's cigarette.
Fred Thurman, he's got his left foot twist around, all broke from jerking in his stirrup.
If she had only been a man, he would have known exactly how to still her tongue, but he had never before been called upon to deal with the problem of keeping a woman quiet.
They would take her to the asylum; she felt that the Sawtooth had the power, that she had played directly into their hands, and that they would be as ruthless in dealing with her as they had been with the nesters whom they had killed.
Like a weight pressing harder and harder until one is crushed beneath it, their talk of Lorraine's insanity forced fear into his soul.
"It's a kinda rusty trick, though, Lone, quittin' without notice and leaving a camp empty." "Elk Spring won't run away," Lone assured him without emotion.
I'd a been kinda oneasy, myself, but Snake's dead gentle, and she's a purty fair rider fer a girl." "Then we'll have to find her.
How did it happen?" "Fell off his wagon and broke his neck," Lone told him laconically.
"If they get me, it'll be all off with her," he worried, as he followed the two up the canyon.
These details, I may add, formed the sum of Lorraine's first impression of him.
I watched yuh all night--and I couldn't help loving yuh.
But we ain't got one thing that goes with it, and that's justice.
In a little while they reached the crest of that slope, and Lorraine, looking back, could only guess at where the trail wound on among the trees lower down.
Up on the ridge nearest the house Al Woodruff shifted his position so that he could watch her go.
Brit was awake, and the look in his eyes frightened Lorraine so that she stopped in the middle of the room, staring at him fascinated.
She surprised a grunt out of Sorry, who looked over his shoulder as if he feared eavesdroppers.
Here's good, level ground--I couldn't get outa sight in less than ten minutes, afoot.
That's a nice ranch he's got, too.
"A good story with numberless thrills and a humorous quality throughout its pages."--_New York Sun_.
I laughed at her and joshed her out of it." "Didn't she ever say anything about Fred Thurman, then?" Warfield persisted.
"I ain't going to hurt you if you're good." He twitched his neckerchief off--Lorraine saw that it was untied, and that he must have planned all this--and with it he tied her wrists to the saddle horn.
Is that all he said?
I'd just like to know how a girl would ever have a chance to know what was going on in the country, unless she heard the men talking while she poured their coffee.
Unconsciously she waited for a cue, and the cue was not given.
Without a word he took her wrists in a firm clasp, tied them together again to the saddle horn, pulled off her tie, her hat, and the pins from her hair.
He took his hunting knife, went to the spruce grove and cut many small, green branches, returning with all he could hold in his arms.
Don't be scared; I won't hurt you.
She was slaving for them as she had never thought to slave when Brit promised to honor and protect her, but the fact remained that he was their father even if he did not act like one.
She's a good, honest girl when she ain't crazy." "And no good, honest girl who is not crazy could possibly be a girl of mine!
They were hungry, and they cooked enough food for four men and ate it leisurely.
And Lone, knowing that Al Woodruff might be within shooting distance, was probably much more uncomfortable than he looked.
The bunk-house door opened, and Sorry came out on the doorstep, stood there a minute and came slowly to meet her as she retraced her steps to the house.
He had merely instructed her to keep to the trails, and if she didn't know the way home, to let the reins lie loose on Yellowjacket's neck and he would bring her to the gate.
"Don't tell girl we're looking for her.
Lone guessed that the two felt the need of a private conference after their visit to the Quirt, but he could see no way to slip unobserved to the house and eavesdrop, so he looked perfunctorily through all the sheds and around the depleted haystacks,--wherever a person could find a hiding place.
Wherefore Swan and Lone were going to look over the ground before others had trampled out what evidence there might be in the shape of footprints.
"I learned this act from the jack rabbits," she rallied herself shakily, when she was safely hidden behind a sagebush whose pungency made her horribly afraid that she might sneeze, which would be too ridiculous.
The man's capacity for keeping still was amazing.
I will fix it so you need not carry much.
Lone frowned and stared at the ground, and Swan spoke sharply to Jack, who was nosing back and forth, at fault if ever a dog was.
West she had not gone, but she had no doubt that it would be the same dreary monotony of dull gray landscape.
She'd ridden him half to death, getting here.
"Thank you so much," she said coldly and returned to the station.
So Hawkins gave him a check for his wages and let him go with no more than a foreman's natural reluctance to lose a trustworthy man.
If I had the money and the land and the political pull he's got, mebby I'd have me a sheriff and a judge, too.
What you goin' to do about it?
It seemed a shame that he was a bit crazy, she thought; and immediately she recalled his perfect assurance when he told her of sending thought messages to his mother.
Still, he kept an eye on Lorraine, and he did not turn his back to her.
His next words were very nearly what Lone Morgan had said, Lorraine remembered.
You couldn't prove what you saw, even if you was to try." He looked at her very much as Lone Morgan had looked at her.
I seen how you piled onto old Yellowjacket and the way you held your reins.
What's on your chest, Swan?" Lone slipped sidewise in the saddle, resting his muscles.
She had never seen anything like that before, never seen horses so frantically trying to run from the swaying load behind them.
"Say, I never set out to _marry_ the Sawtooth," he stated calmly.
It was that resemblance perhaps which held her quiet instead of following her first impulse to speak to them and ask them to carry her grip to the house.
Trail that horse if you want to--I'd like to see yuh amuse yourselves that way!" He turned again to stare after Lorraine, meditating deeply.
In much the same manner his herds increased.
Bill Warfield's got this county under his thumb.
Swan had his rifle, and Lone's six-shooter showed now and then under his coat when the wind flipped back a corner.
Do you want them?" "No!
I saw dad crawling out from under the wagon just before I got to where the load was standing.
A man had risen up from the campfire and faced them, his hands rising slowly, palms outward.
Drink all night, would yuh?" He swore long and fluently at his horse, spurred him through the shallows, and the two rode on up the hill, their voices still mingled in desultory argument, with now and then an oath rising clearly above the jumble of words.
He saw that she was taking the trail toward Fred Thurman's, and that she was riding swiftly, as if she had some errand in that direction, something urgent.
Hain't she a heart-ballum girl of Bob's?" From the saddle Lone stared down impassively at Pop and Pop's companions.
Inside the dugout Swan set the lantern on a table, dropped wearily upon a rough bench before it and looked at the jars beside him, lifted his hand and opened a compact, but thoroughly efficient field wireless "set." His right fingers dropped to the key, and the whining drone of the wireless rose higher and higher as he tuned up.
"We don't go running to paw nobody's stomach and say, 'Wow-wow!
He greeted her with, a fatherly "Hello, kiddie," and would have kissed her had Lorraine not evaded him skilfully.
Three or four days had always been his limit.
The tale is well written, with the fine art of artlessness, and of unflagging interest; a book worth the reading which it is sure to get from every one who begins it.--_New York Tribune_.
So if you folks have got any sense, you'll bust it up right now.
He had noticed how pleased she was that their cabin was of logs.
We don't have thunderstorms to amount to anything, in Los Angeles.
Contrary to Lone's idea of him, Swan was tired, and he was thinking a great deal about Lorraine, and very little about Al Woodruff, except as Al was concerned with Lorraine's welfare.
And what us small fellers do, we do it quiet, too.
I been to Thurman's ranch, and I don't find anybody.
"I don't----" "Did they git Frank, las' night?" Brit's eyes seemed to bore into her soul, searching pitilessly for the truth.
Anyway, your dog'll know if he's been there." Swan thought it over, his eyes moving here and there to every hint of movement between the skyline and himself.
And here you've blocked everything for me, afraid I was falling down on my job!
"I'll git Bill Warfield yet--and git him right," was the gist of his musings.
It sometimes does thunder there in the winter, but it is very mild." With hands that trembled she picked the cat off the rail and started toward the house.
But one goes to the main road, and he don't take that one, I bet you.
"We seem to be in something of a hurry!
Lorraine went home to the Casa Grande, hating it more than ever she had hated it in her life.
I'm asking you to forget a bad dream, that's all, and not go telling it to other folks." For some time Lorraine did not answer.
Answer came, and Swan bent over the table, listening, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the opposite wall of the dugout.
But Swan and Lone were treading close on their heels, and their own curiosity pulled them forward.
He was absorbed now in his work and thought no more about the Sawtooth.
You spoke about the sheriff----" "The sheriff!" Brit laughed harshly.
While she waited for the information clerk to look it up the very words conjured visions of wide horizons and clean winds and high adventure.
That was in the morning, when he found me.
"It's dad, of course--and you'd better get your coat off and get ready to go to work, because I expect he's just one mass of broken bones!" The doctor smiled behind his whiskers and returned to the doorway to direct the carrying in of his patient.
"What do you think Al would want----" "Don't she see him shoot Fred Thurman?
The horses stopped with their forefeet in the water and drooped heads to drink thirstily.
Quite suddenly the gray landscape glowed with a palpitating radiance, unreal, beautiful beyond expression.
So if you'll come with me to Whisper, your dog may show yuh who owns that handkerchief.
He had no camping outfit, a bulkily rolled slicker forming his only burden.
Brit would not sell his ranch.
The smell of bacon cooking watered their mouths and made Warfield and Hawkins look at one another inquiringly.
"I was across the walley and I saw him coming down the road like rolling rocks down a hill.
None save Brit had slept during the night--and Brit had slept only because Lorraine had prudently given him a full dose of the sedative left by the doctor for that very purpose.
The deep rumble grew louder, nearer.
To go on would be to begin another story; to tell of the building up of the Quirt outfit, with Lone and Lone's savings playing a very important part, and with Brit a semi-invalided, retired stockman who smoked his pipe and told the young couple what they should do and how they should do it.
"I guess you're tired," Al said suddenly, rousing himself from deep study and looking at her imperturbably.
Swan's housekeeping qualities made her ashamed of her own imperfections; and when, thinking that Swan must be hungry and that the least she could do was to set out food for him, she opened the cupboard, she had a swift, embarrassed vision of her own culinary imperfections.
All right, Lone, you walk over to that black rock and set down.
They'd be more likely to make up a lynching party right in the outfit and hang Al as an example than they would try to shield him.
His words had brought back too sharply that scene.
She would have known a great deal less about the romance of the West, however, and she would probably never have seen a sheriff's posse riding twenty strong and bunched like bird-shot when it leaves the muzzle of the gun.
"Well, he didn't have it coming to him--but it's done and over with, now, so it's no use thinking about it," he reflected, when the roofs of the Thurman ranch buildings began to show now and then through the thin ranks of the cottonwoods along the creek.
As safe," he added meaningly, "as dragging Fred Thurman, or unhooking Brit's chain-lock before he started down the canyon with his load of posts." Swan did not answer, but turned back to where the horse had been left tied and took up the trail from there.
"I reckon I had the right hunch when I didn't turn it over to Mrs.
Lorraine was terribly tempted to stay, at least until she had eaten.
One is that I'll have my way, or die getting it.
But Al was too quick for her.
My hearing's pretty good." Warfield moved the spark lever up and down on the wheel while he thought.
"He's all in, but he's got to make it," he said.
She wanted to be near somebody just then, and after all, Brit was her father, and his silence was not the inertia of a dull mind, she knew.
The shelves were cluttered with fit companions to that empty pepper can.
It's a damn queer layout all around; and this here doctor gitting here ahead of you folks, that there is the queerest.
Or would you rather wait until Frank brings the fruit?" "I'd ruther wait--if Frank don't take all night," Brit grumbled.
"That was him, wasn't it?" Lorraine stopped and stood looking at him without speaking.
It was precarious footing for his horse when he left the road, but John Doe was accustomed to that.
"She talked about you in her sleep last night.
Lone watched him miserably, wishing that Swan was not quite so matter of fact in his man-chasing.
He skewered the meat on a green, forked stick and gave it to her to broil for herself over the hottest coals of the fire, while he made the coffee and prepared his own portion of the grouse.
I'd like you, if you don't kill for a living.
Killing me for kidnapping this girl would sound damn romantic in the newspapers, and it wouldn't have a thing to do with Thurman or Frank Johnson, or any of the rest that I've sent over the trail for you.
The story itself is ended.
She's a city girl," Lone replied, his heart heavy with fear for Lorraine.
Oh, search me all you want to, first," he added, when he read the suspicion in Swan's eyes.
Witnesses were never lacking to swear to the improvements he had made, and after the patent had been granted the homesteader (for the contestant always won, in that country) the Sawtooth, would pay him for the land.
So she closed the screen door behind her, careful that it should not slam, and ran down the path in the heavy dusk wherein crickets were rasping a strident chorus.
But he made no sound; nor did Swan, when he dropped his fingers to the dog's head and patted him approvingly.
"Spurs would scratch like that if you jerk your foot, maybe.
I might think you were trying to cover up something--only, you're not the man I saw--or thought I saw." "No, of course I'm not.
He reached the place where Fred Thurman lay, stood well away from the body and studied every detail closely.
But when he came upon her footprints again, he pulled up and held John Doe to a walk, scanning each bush and boulder as he passed.
The next flash, came within a half-minute.
You've maybe seen places like that." "Oh, yes." Lorraine's eyes lighted with a smile.
Should I tell the coroner that?" "I dunno," Lone replied shortly.
Sorry and Jim will ride for the Quirt, I suppose, as long as they can crawl into a saddle, but there are younger men now to ride the Skyline Meadow range.
For the first time she looked back at her father lurching along on the load and at the team looking so funny with the collars pushed up on their necks with the weight of the load behind.
"It isn't--he isn't----" she began, and turned upon Swan, who was beside the bunk, looking down at Frank's upturned face.
Well, I ain't going to give you a chance." His eyes rested on her face with a new expression; an awakening desire for her, an admiration for the spirit that would not let her weep and plead with him.
The man's wages would be paid.
If he could do that--but of course he couldn't.
"I kinda wish you liked me, now I've got you." He shook her arm and laughed when she turned her face away from him, then remounted his horse.
But you will long ago have guessed that he was the evil eye of the Sawtooth Company.
"You don't know this country like I know it.
Frank helps me with dad, and Jim and Sorry are trying to keep things going on the ranch.
"Come on over to the fire," he said.
As it was, her West was filled with men who died suddenly in gobs of red paint and girls who rode loose-haired and panting with hand held over the heart, hurrying for doctors, and cowboys and parsons and such.
Two questions and two brief answers convinced her that the station agent did not know Britton Hunter,--which was strange, unless this happened to be a very new agent.
If Lone Morgan told you not to talk about it, he told you right.
It is just to make it steady for me." While he talked he was working on the stretcher.
The cor'ner come and held an inquest, and the jury agreed it was an accident.
Deep in his intrepid soul he hoped that the Sawtooth would at last show its hand openly.
Was it Frank or Lone?
"This here hat I traded for yesterday.
Warfield counted him a Sawtooth man.
Al won't talk, I tell yuh." Swan did not believe that.
"Now he'll be stiff and sore to-morrow--and we've got quite a ride to make." His tone of disapproval sent a guilty feeling through Lorraine, until she remembered that a slow horse might save her from this man who was all bad,--except, perhaps, just on the surface which was not altogether repellent.
He knew that if he examined carefully enough Fred Thurman's body he would find the mark of a bullet.
I'd say they're poor shooters." And he added irrelevantly, as he held up a grayish pelt, "I got that coyote I been chasing for two weeks.